Sustainable Value Report 2008

Basic reporting principles

Sustainable Value Report 2008 of the BMW Group This seventh edition of the BMW Group Sustainable Value Report has been published to inform stakeholders about the company's sustainability strategy and how sustainability is being integrated into corporate processes. Focusing on present and future challenges, the Sustainable Value Report 2008 describes the company's approaches and specific pro grammes used to improve its sustainability performance in the areas of economics, product responsibility, Groupwide environmental protection, employees and social responsibility. The chapter "Sustainability indicators" presents key figures for these measures as well as the company's objectives in the abovementioned areas. Each chapter starts with a two page overview of the main points, including the results of the materiality analysis, i. e. the evaluation of a topic's importance for stakeholders and the BMW Group, as well as key challenges and achievements, and the key performance indicators (KPIs) used internally to control and monitor the BMW Group's sustainability performance. Conforms to GRI standards The BMW Group's Sustainable Value Report has been drawn up in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G3) guidelines as well as the industryspecific Automotive Sector Supplement (pilot version 1.0). To what extent GRI indicators are met is shown in the GRI Index in the chapter "Sustainability indicators". At GRI level A, this Sustainable Value Report 2008 meets the maximum requirements detailed in the GRI guidelines. Topics have been selected and weighted in accordance with the findings of intensive, structured dialogue with stakeholders as well as with the results of inhouse workshops in which all relevant BMW Group departments participated. The specific demands of rating agen cies specialising in evaluating corporate sustainability performance are also taken into consideration. Reporting period For the first time, the year stated in the title of the Sustainable Value Report 2008 corresponds to the company's Annual Report. This publication primarily focuses on the 2008 calendar year, but in order to present an uptodate and complete report, information about activities carried out in 2007 (limited to events that occurred after the editorial deadline of the previous Sustainable Value Report in August 2007) as well as new information obtained by the editorial deadline in July 2009 has also been included. As a rule, facts and figures in this report refer to the entire BMW Group with its brands BMW, MINI and RollsRoyce. There are, however, some exceptions concerning sitespecific topics and local sustainability programmes. Wherever this is the case, the entity the figures apply to is specified accordingly, e. g. BMW AG. The key performance indicators for corporate environmental protection and data referring to product responsibility were already published in the BMW Group's Annual Report 2008. They were therefore part of the audit carried out by the audit company KPMG AG. External audits of environ mental protection and occupational safety indicators are regularly carried out in accordance with ISO 14001, EMAS and OHSAS / OHRIS regulations (see list of certified locations in the chapter "Sustainability indicators"). UN Global Compact ­ Communication on Progress report The BMW Group committed itself to the principles of the UN Global Compact back in 2001, and in this report is once again reporting on progress achieved towards complying with these principles. An overview of the ten principles with examples of their implementation is contained in the respective chapters and summarised in the chapter "Sustainability indicators". Further information It is impossible to do justice to the full range of the BMW Group's sustainability activities and programmes in print format. Please refer to www.bmwgroup.com/responsibility for further indepth information on the topics covered in the Sustainable Value Report 2008 and the glossary. Internet links to the topics discussed are indicated in the report by a specific symbol. This report is published in German and English. In the interest of improving readability, a genderneutral language has been chosen. Words denoting the male gender are to be read as including females.

www.globalreporting.org

www.unglobalcompact.org www.globalcompact.de

www.bmwgroup.com/ responsibility www.bmwgroup.com/ glossary

Forward-looking statements This Sustainable Value Report contains various forwardlooking statements about future developments which are based on the current status of the BMW Group's assumptions and forecasts. They are thus subject to a variety of predictable and unpredictable risks, uncertainties and other factors so that the actual outcome, including the company's financial and assets position, its development or performance, could differ considerably. Materiality analysis In keeping with GRI G3, the BMW Group aims to present any relevant corporate sustainability topics and the applicable strategies, targets and programmes in this Sustainable Value Report. The BMW Group has applied a structured approach to identifying key topics to be covered in the report: 1. A telephone survey with 32 expert stakeholders from the capital markets, science and research, politics and NGOs in winter 2008 / 2009. 2. An online survey at www.bmwgroup.com/responsibility with 238 participants in winter 2008/2009. Respondents included customers, employees, business partners and representatives from sociopolitical circles. 3. A topicspecific Stakeholder Roundtable held in February 2009 with 25 experts from the worlds of politics, science and research, capital markets, NGOs as well as BMW Group representatives. 4. Evaluation of the findings with regard to the topics' relevance for stakeholders. 5. Determination of the identified topics' relevance for the BMW Group at workshops with representatives from different corporate areas. 6. Transfer of the determined relevance of the topics to materiality matrices, as presented in the first pages of each chapter. This approach serves as the basis for the report's structure as well as its thematic priorities. For more information on the stakeholder dialogue, please refer to pages 12 ­ 13 of this report.

BMW Group reporting history and sustainability publications
www.bmwgroup.com/ responsibility/publications

Publication Environmental Report 1997/1998 Environmental Report 1999/2000 Sustainable Value Report 2001/2002 Sustainable Value Report 2003/2004 Sustainable Value Report 2005/2006 Sustainable Value Report 2007/2008 Sustainability Indicators ­ Update 2008 Brochure "Sustainability by design" Sustainable Value Report 2008

Reporting period Financial years 1995 and 1996 Financial years 1997 and 1998 Financial years 1999 and 2000 Financial years 2001 and 2002 Financial years 2003 and 2004 Financial years 2005 and 2006 Financial year 2007 ­ Financial year 2008*

Print

Online / PDF

The BMW Group's financial year corresponds to the calendar year. For further publications such as the environmental statements of the locations with EMAS certification, please see www.bmwgroup.com/responsibility/publications. * This publication primarily focuses on the 2008 calendar year as its reporting period. Nevertheless, in order to present an uptodate and complete report, information about activities carried out in 2007 (limited to events that occurred after the editorial deadline of the previous Sustainable Value Report in August 2007) as well as new information obtained by the editorial deadline in July 2009 have also been included.

Identify demands. Reflect on challenges. Invest in the future. Understand that success and sustainability belong together. And then seize that opportunity.

01

Contents

Report
Our position -- 02 Group profile -- 04

01

Sustainability management -- 05 01.1 Strategy and organisation -- 08 01.2 Stakeholder dialogue -- 12 01.3 Sustainability in the supply chain -- 14 01.4 Awards and indices -- 16 Economics -- 17 02.1 The year 2008 -- 20 02.2 Risk management and corporate governance -- 22 Product responsibility -- 23 03.1 Understanding and embedding -- 26 03.2 Technologies for sustainable mobility -- 29 03.3 Vehicle safety -- 32 03.4 Traffic management and mobility research -- 34 03.5 Recycling -- 35 03.6 Customer satisfaction -- 36 Group-wide environmental protection -- 37 Resource management and environmental protection -- 40 04.1 04.2 Energy consumption and emissions -- 42 04.3 Materials use and waste management -- 44 04.4 Water and wastewater -- 45 04.5 Efficient transport logistics -- 46 Employees -- 47 05.1 Attractive employer -- 50 05.2 Perfect conditions for the number one success factor -- 51 05.3 Performance and reward -- 56 05.4 Shaping change flexibly -- 57 05.5 Cooperation and appreciation -- 58 Society -- 59 06.1 General concept and priorities -- 62 06.2 Road safety projects -- 63 06.3 Education and intercultural understanding -- 64 06.4 Commitment to fighting HIV / Aids -- 65 06.5 Worldwide cultural commitment -- 66 06.6 Foundations -- 67

02 03

04

05

Link to website

06

Reference to other publications

Reference to UN Global Compact

Key facts and figures

i
Reference to "Sustainability indicators" page 68 et seqq.

Sustainability indicators -- 68 Key facts and figures regarding the designated topics can be found in the section "Sustainability indicators" -- 68
GRI Index -- 104 UN Global Compact ­ Communication on Progress -- 107

Reference to GRI Index

Index -- 109 Contacts -- 111

02

Our position

The BMW Group and its BMW, MINI and RollsRoyce brands epitomise joy, passion and success. Our aim is to actively shape the future. To achieve this, we are making sustainability an increasingly integral part of our value chain. Sustainability should be the defining principle of how we design our processes and procedures. Our company has been changing its approach over recent years. The revision of the BMW Group's sustainability strategy was the next logical step and an important milestone. But there is still much to do. As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, we are committed to its ten principles for environ mental and social standards at all our locations worldwide. It is only natural that we should contribute to solving the tasks we all face, from climate protection to the growing shortage of resources and social challenges. This is how we are preparing our company and its products to face the future and thereby creating solutions for the benefit of everyone. The bar is set high: the BMW Group was once again the most sustainable company in the automotive industry in 2008. We will continue to do our utmost to main tain this standard in the future.

Dr. Norbert Reithofer

Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG

Clean Production is what sustainable manufacturing at the BMW Group is all about. We already lead the way in our industry ­ but that is not enough for the BMW Group: Our passion and creativity drive us to look for new ways to make better use of resources. The improvements we make become standards. We aim to achieve the perfect process ­ which creates tangible added value, both ecologically and economically. Sustainability in produc tion is not just the responsibility of our specialists. It is a comprehensive ap proach that shapes the thinking and actions of all our employees ­ at all times and at all locations.

Frank-Peter Arndt

Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG

Production

The BMW Group has made a definite commitment to sustainability that our customers can rely on. But our own commitment to sustainability is not enough: We also have to select the partners we work with very carefully. To uphold our claim of being a sustainable company, sustainability must begin with our procure ment process. Integrating sustainability throughout the entire value chain will be one of the major challenges of the future. Since the value chains in our industry are so complex, this will require a joint effort on the part of all the companies involved. The BMW Group is ready and willing to do its part.

Dr. Herbert Diess

Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG

Purchasing and Supplier Network

03

Our main concern is to make individual mobility sustainable. We are passionate about developing lowcon sumption vehicles that combine efficiency with dynamic driving performance. Our strategy is both evo lutionary and revolutionary: We are constantly refining our Efficient Dynamics concept, combining techno logical drive train innovations with lightweight construction, improved aerodynamics and intelligent energy management within the vehicle. Hybrid drives based on electric or hydrogen energy and the fullyelectric MINI E currently being tested in everyday use will also play a role in the future of individual mobility.

Dr. Klaus Draeger

Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG

Development

Sustainability pays dividends. Companies that practice ecological and social responsibility are basically investing in their own future. As the Dow Jones Sustainability Index World leader in our industry for the past several years, we have seen increasing numbers of investors consider our sustainability per formance in their evaluations. This provides an incentive to do more. In the long run, only companies that plan for the long term and conserve resources will succeed.

Dr. Friedrich Eichiner

Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG

Finance

Human resources can make a lasting contribution to the success of the company ­ provided it looks beyond shortterm requirements and focuses on meeting future needs. The main tasks in securing the BMW Group's longterm success include dealing with personnel development and change issues, as well as the shortage of skilled labour and demographic change. We are setting the course today to ensure we will have the right staff with the right qualifications in the right place five years from now.

Harald Krüger

Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG

Human Resources, Industrial Relations Director

An automobile is a statement for a customer ­ about themselves, their values and their principles. A premium automobile must inspire emotions and desire; however, premium will also be defined through sustain ability. At the BMW Group, we decided to implement efficiency measures right across the entire model portfolio and not just in certain models. This is part of Efficient Dynamics ­ our strategy for sustainable individual mobility. As a premium manufacturer, we want to make a real contribution to sustainability, by offering our customers fuelefficient vehicles, as well as driving pleasure.

Ian Robertson

Member of the Board of Management of BMW AG

Sales and Marketing

04

Group profile

The BMW Group is one of the world's ten largest automobile manufacturers, headquartered in Munich. Chairman of the Board of Management is Dr. Norbert Reithofer; Chairman of the Supervisory Board is Prof. Dr. Joachim Milberg.
www.bmwgroup.com

For the 2008 financial year, the BMW Group achieved a global sales volume of more than 1.4 million automobiles and over 101,000 motorcycles, and generated revenues of 53.2 billion euros. The BMW Group's EBIT for the 2008 financial year totalled 921 million euros. At the end of 2008, the company employed a global workforce of around 100,000. The company's shares (WKN 519000; ISIN DE0005190003) are listed on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange's DAX index. On 31 De cember 2008, there were 601,995,196 BMW shares of common stock and 52,196,162 shares of preferred stock. This corres ponds to a share capital of around 654 million euros. Strategic investors hold 46.6 % of the shares of the company's com mon stock while 53.4 % of the common stock is held by institutional and private investors. History Bayerische Motoren Werke G. m. b. H. was created in 1917 from the former RappMotorenwerke GmbH. In 1918, the owners converted the company into a joint stock company. In 1922, the company's engine production operations, its name and the BMW trademark were transferred to Bayerische Flugzeugwerke A.G., which was founded in 1916. The company initially focused on the development and production of aircraft engines, and, from 1923 onwards, also on motorcycles. In 1928, BMW laid the foundation for its success as an automobile manufacturer with the purchase of the Eisenach motor vehicle factory. Brands and objectives The BMW Group brands BMW, MINI and RollsRoyce are three of the strongest premium brands in the automotive industry today. Vehicles built by the BMW Group offer superb product substance in terms of aesthetic appeal, dynamic performance, technology and quality, and underline the company's leading position in innovation and technology. The BMW Group also occupies a strong market position in the motorcycle segment with the brands BMW and Husqvarna. BMW Financial Services rounds off the BMW Group's successful portfolio. The BMW Group's goal is to achieve profitable growth and aboveaverage returns by focusing on premium segments. The company successfully began its strategic realignment with the Strategy Number ONE in September 2007, with the vision to be the leading provider of premium products and premium services for individual mobility. Research and development network The BMW Group operates an international research and development network with sites in Germany, Austria, the US, Japan and China. This helps the company identify trends early and offer appropriate solutions. Production and assembly locations The BMW Group is a global operation with 24 production and assembly plants in 13 countries. Production facilities are located in Munich (lead plant), Dingolfing, Regensburg, Landshut, Leipzig, Berlin, Wackersdorf, Eisenach, Spartanburg (USA), Rosslyn (South Africa), Oxford (UK), Hams Hall (UK), Swindon (UK), Goodwood (UK), Steyr (Austria), Cassinetta di Biandronno (Italy) and Shenyang (China). Assembly plants are located in Kaliningrad (Russia), Cairo (Egypt), Chennai (India), Rayong (Thailand), Kulim (Malaysia) and Jakarta (Indonesia). These are mainly operated together with external partners. The company also uses Magna Steyr Fahrzeugtechnik AG & Co KG in Graz (Austria) for contract production. Sales and distribution network Since the 1970s, the BMW Group has consistently pursued its objective of operating its own sales subsidiaries in all of the world's major markets as part of its sales strategy. Today, the sales network consists of 41 companyowned sales sub sidiaries and more than 3,000 dealerships. Around 100 further countries are served by local importers. This means the BMW Group is active in more than 140 countries on all five continents.

www.bmwgroup.com/locations

01

05

Sustainability management
01 Sustainability management 05 01.1 Strategy and organisation 08 01.2 Stakeholder dialogue 12 01.3 Sustainability in the supply chain 14 01.4 Awards and indices 16 Economics 17 Product responsibility 23 Groupwide environmental protection 37 Employees 47 Society 59

02 03 04 05 06

Building lasting stability: Sustainability needs a solid strategic foundation.

06

01

Sustainability management

With its corporate Strategy Number ONE, the BMW Group is pursuing its vision of being the leading provider of premium products and premium services for individual mobility. The same aim applies to the principle of sustainability. The BMW Group's sustainability strategy focuses on integrating sustainability throughout the entire value chain and its underlying processes ­ creating an added value for the company, the environment and society. Key
BMW Group sustainability strategy and key issues

elements of BMW Group's sustainability management include an "environmental radar" that is regularly extended to cover additional ecological and social aspects; ongoing dialogue with stakeholders; the inclusion of sustainability criteria in all decision-making processes; and a holistic approach to the entire value chain. The achievements made in this way are communicated clearly and factually to both employees and the general public.

Objective: To be the most sustainable company in the automotive industry
Sustainability management Environmental radar Key issues Sustainability-based decisions Evaluation of the value chain Transparent communication

Ecology
Product responsibility Group-wide environmental protection

Economy
Risk management Corporate governance and compliance

Society
Responsibility towards employees Social commitment

of the BMW Group are called upon to help implement the goal of corporate sustainability in their area of responsibility. The Sustainability Board ­ comprising the company's entire Board of Management ­ continuously evaluates progress and determines the strategic direction.
BMW Group headquarters in Munich

All employees

07

Challenges

To involve all employees in implementing the sustainability strategy To identify topics and forms of dialogue to strengthen cooperation with different stakeholder groups

To understand and promote social and ecological aspects as resource-friendly and efficient alternatives on supplier markets

Page 70 et seqq.

Evaluation of BMW Group sustainability activities* (telephone survey)
in %** Very good
No comment Un satisfactory Satisfactory Very good

Evaluation of BMW Group sustainability activities* (online survey)
in %** 37 35 5 2 21
No comment Unsatisfactory Satisfactory Very good

Very good Good Satisfactory Unsatisfactory No comment

34 42 16 5 3

Good Satisfactory Unsatisfactory No comment

Good International stakeholder survey in winter 2008 / 2009 among 32 stakeholders from seven countries; multiple answers permitted ** 100 % = absolute number of mentions concerning topics such as environmental protection, product responsibility, employees; from 32 stakeholder interviews
* *

Good Online survey in winter 2008 / 2009 among 238 participants; multiple answers permitted ** 100 % = absolute number of mentions concerning topics such as environmental protection, product responsibility, employees; 238 participants

BMW Group's inclusion in sustainability indices (as of July 2009)
Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World and STOXX
FTSE4Good Global Index, Europe Index, Environmental Leaders

not listed 2008 industry leader (Super Sector Leader) listed

Achievements

Objectives

Sustainability strategy adopted, sustainability included in corporate target system, target management for sustainability indicators established Sustainability Board and Sustainability Circle established Mandatory examination of all decision papers submitted to the Board of Management with regard to sustainability criteria First Stakeholder Roundtable in Munich on sustainable mobility and the conservation of resources hosted Sustainability questionnaire as an instrument for supplier selection revised, exclusion criteria defined National and international purchasing conditions updated with regard to social and ecological standards as well as the transfer of responsibility to Tier 2 suppliers

Establish sustainability strategy at subsidiaries and retail organisations worldwide Extend the risk management system to include ecological and social factors Strengthen stakeholder dialogue and develop it at international level Establish evaluation processes for suppliers' locations and take sustainability aspects fully into consideration in the concept phase of all vehicle projects and across all supplier levels Raise awareness of ecological and social requirements among purchasers and qualifying suppliers

08

01.1

Strategy and organisation. In September 2007, the BMW Group presented
its new corporate Strategy Number ONE. The vision: to be the leading provider of premium products and premium services for individual mobility.

BMW Group Annual Report 2008

To reach this goal, the company needs to focus consistently on growth and profitability, constantly develop new technologies, guarantee access to relevant customer groups, and, most importantly, actively shape the future. These key fields of action are the four pillars of Strategy Number ONE. Why is the term sustainability not part of the vision statement? Quite simply: Because sustainability is an integral part of each field of action defined by Strategy Number ONE. Sustainable actions are already being implemented Group-wide and will continue to be closely integrated into the company's processes from year to year. One example: Last year's BMW Group sales were assisted by the success of Efficient Dynamics. This technology package comprises a whole range of innovations and has so far been incorporated into over 1.4 million vehicles. Thanks to Efficient Dynamics, the BMW Group has reduced its fleet's fuel consumption more effectively than any other manufacturer in the auto industry. As the following example shows, embracing sustainability is also a key prerequisite for improving the company's profitability. In 2008, the 650,000 MWh of energy saved reduced energy costs by approximately 35 million euros. At the same time, the focus is on the future. BMW Group developers involved in "project i" are working on new mobility concepts that will show just how sustainable the future of individual mobility could be. The most recent example is the MINI E, with a fully electric drive. It is currently being tested in everyday use by over 600 customers. Collaborations and networks help to ensure that the BMW Group has access to technologies and customers. Potential partners are not only companies in the automotive industry, but also those such as energy providers who will play a crucial role in making electric mobility a viable solution. Sustainability as a corporate principle The BMW Group's basic principles form the foundation of the company's consistent, long-term alignment (see Chapter 02.1 for a detailed description). They establish, among other things, that being a good corporate citizen is an integral part of how the BMW Group defines itself as a company. Furthermore, sustainability is regarded as making a positive contribution to the company's economic success.

Premium and sustainability go hand in hand According to the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, the BMW Group is currently the world's most sustainable carmaker. The company has remained the industry leader in these important global corporate sustainability indices for four consecutive years, most recently in 2008. Numerous other ratings and awards also confirm the company's leading role in the field of sustainability. But for the BMW Group this is only the beginning. It is obvious that sustainability is set to play an even bigger role in defining premium mobility of the future ­ from environmentally-friendly drive trains and resource-friendly production processes to new, sustainable services in the field of individual mobility. In the future, premium will inevitably comprise the concept of sustainability. The manu-

Corporate Strategy Number ONE

Vision

Competitive Advantage

Growth

Shaping the Future

Profitability

Access to Technologies and Customers

Basic Principles

www.bmwgroup.com/guidelines

facturer that offers the most efficient and resourcefriendly production and the most visionary solutions for eco-friendly individual mobility will have the competitive

09

--a The BMW Group is broadening the definition of premium. Sustainability plays an important part in this, according to Dr. Reithofer, Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG, here at the Annual General Meeting in May 2009.

--a

edge. This is why the company's Strategy Number ONE would be inconceivable without sustainability. Turning vision into reality But how does Strategy Number ONE translate into sustain able actions? What are the company's priorities? Which sustainability targets does the BMW Group have? Which weaknesses have to be overcome and which strengths must be enhanced? All these questions were answered in 2008 when the com pany completely revised its sustainability strategy. The new strategy, which was adopted by the Board of Manage ment in the first half of 2009, directly builds upon Strategy Number ONE and its comprehensive approach applies to all of the company's divisions worldwide. The overriding aim is to make sustainability an integral part of the entire value chain and its underlying processes ­ to create an added value for the company, the environment and society. Following an analysis of internal and external risks and opportunities and the competitive environment, the BMW Group established key principles and fields of action for the implementation of its sustainability strategy. The com pany has decided to forge ahead in developing efficient drive technologies and to implement sustainable mobility concepts for urban centres. As for the production process, the goal is to further reduce the consumption of resources and minimise environmental impact ­ a reflection of the BMW Group's Clean Production philosophy. As an attrac tive employer, the BMW Group aims to strengthen em ployees' motivation and satisfaction and improve the ex pertise of its specialists and executives to face future challenges. It is also vital to integrate ecological and social standards in the supply chain. As a good corporate citizen, the company is resolved to find solutions to pressing social challenges ­ so that it may actively shape the parameters that govern the company's actions. The core principles stipulated in the BMW Group's sustainability strategy in clude a farreaching impact assessment for decisions, crossdivisional cooperation and anchoring sustainable thinking in employees' minds.

A large number of structural and organisational innovations have been implemented to ensure that the goal and the underlying strategic direction are effectively pursued in the company's operational business. In early 2009, sustain ability was established Groupwide as a corporate target and is measured by means of a balanced scorecard. As a result, detailed guidelines have been developed for all BMW Group divisions. This approach will help the com pany measure and manage its own sustainability perform ance more precisely. BMW Group executives are also com mitted to sustainability as a corporate objective via their individual target agreements, which are based on corporate and division targets. One example: as a way to optimise environmental per formance, the BMW Group plans to reduce Groupwide resource consumption by 30 % between 2006 and 2012. According to specific annual targets for each production site ­ controlled by Groupwide environmental manage ment ­ this overriding goal will be achieved in stages. Each and every proposal today is measured against the corporate goal of maximum sustainability. Each project submitted to the BMW Group Board of Management for approval must first be evaluated according to sustainability criteria. These include aspects such as resource con sumption and emissions as well as the social and socio political implications of the different options. Occasionally, such mandatory evaluations can be highly complex. By setting the right course at an early stage of the project, the company can save resources and avoid later correc tions which often incur much higher costs. This approach guarantees that ecological and social aspects are con sidered alongside economic factors in the decisionmaking process. It recognises that a company's value is no longer only pegged to its share price but also to nonfinancial per formance indicators. The success of the BMW Group's sustainability manage ment will primarily depend on the company's ability to identify opportunities and risks early on. To facilitate this task, the company has introduced a socalled "environ mental radar" which is constantly being expanded to in clude further ecological and social criteria. The ongoing

10

--a All BMW Group locations have to meet certain mandatory environmental targets, such as the reduction of waste per vehicle by 30 % between 2006 and 2012.

--a

dialogue with stakeholders from the worlds of business, politics and society also facilitates early identification of medium and long-term challenges. Measuring sustainability The BMW Group has established key performance indicators (KPIs) to be able to optimise its sustainability performance and compare it with others. For the time being, these indicators mostly apply to resource consumption and environmental protection. The long-term objective is to be able to measure other aspects of sustainability via KPIs as well ­ and thus make them easier to manage and control. Furthermore, certain KPIs are to be applied to the entire value chain, i. e. also to suppliers, dealerships and other cooperation partners. Strengthening sustainability in the organisation These are highly ambitious goals. But according to both internal and external standards, the BMW Group is on the right track. At the end of the day, how quickly and completely these goals can be achieved will depend on each individual employee. Nevertheless, while revising its sustainability strategy, the BMW Group came to realise that it is important to place the responsibility for measuring and managing sustainability activities and for providing strategic impetus with a single corporate unit. That is why, in early 2007, the position of the Group Representative for Sustainability and Environmental Protection was assigned to the Corporate Strategy division. The corresponding department reports to the Head of Corporate Strategy and Planning and Environment who, in turn, reports directly to the Chairman of the Board of Management. The unit in charge of the cross-divisional, operational implementation of all corporate sustainability activities is the recently established Sustainability Circle. Each Board Member appoints one member for the Sustainability Circle to represent that Board Member's division. The Circle is chaired by the Group Representative for Sustainability and Environmental Protection. The Sustainability Circle, which replaces the former Environmental Strategy Circle, had its first meeting in June

2008. It is the operational unit responsible for all matters relating to sustainability within the Group. Its members meet four to six times a year. The Sustainability Circle's responsibilities include: ­ identifying and evaluating sustainability-related opportunities and risks ­ coordinating sustainability activities within the BMW Group ­ furthering cross-divisional cooperation ­ exchanging information and issuing statements ­ refining the sustainability strategy Another new committee is the Sustainability Board which was established in summer 2009 at the highest management level. In the future this board, which comprises the entire Board of Management, will determine the strategic alignment for sustainability issues. Twice a year, its memBMW Group sustainability organisation

Sustainability Board
composed of the entire Board of Management chaired by: Chairman of the Board of Management responsible for strategic alignment

Sustainability Circle
composed of one representative per division chaired by: Group Representative for Sustainability and Environmental Protection ­ responsible for drafting proposals

Departments
implement the sustainability targets by initiating appropriate activities and processes

11

At the BMW Group, sustainability issues are not just the responsibility of one particular department. Sustainability concerns every employee. It is also an important topic of discussion at employee meetings.

UN Global Compact

bers will meet to discuss and adopt the strategies and ac tivities proposed at operational level by the Sustainability Circle. The operational implementation of sustainability activities is also governed by the existing management systems for environmental protection (according to ISO 14001 and EMAS), quality assurance (ISO 9001) and occupational safety (OSHAS) described in the following chapters. With the aim of establishing sustainability even more se curely in all areas of the company, a number of sustainability and environmental protection training courses were estab lished during the reporting period. Between October 2006 and October 2008, 651 executives took part in a sustainability training course.

Honouring international guidelines In 2001, the BMW Group committed itself to complying with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the Cleaner Production Declaration of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). The com pany also honours the United Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDG). In light of its activities and competences, the BMW Group primarily contributes to the millennium goals no. 6 "Combat HIV / Aids, malaria and other diseases" and no. 7 "Ensure environ mental sustainability". In the Joint Declaration on Human Rights and Working Conditions, BMW AG's Board of Management and the Works Council confirmed their commitment to the core labour standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO) in 2005. The company also adheres to the OECD guidelines for multinational companies as well as the Business Charter for Sustainable Devel opment of the International Chamber of Commerce.

www.unep.fr/scp/cp www.unglobalcompact.org www.unglobalcompact.de www.un.org/millenniumgoals www.ilo.org www.oecd.org www.iccwbo.org

12

01.2

Stakeholder dialogue. For years, the BMW Group has been involved in inten

sive dialogue with various stakeholder groups ­ at different levels and with changing priorities: from international talks to dialogue with local residents, from specific questions to comprehensive sustainability issues.

Page 70 et seq.

Dialogue of this kind represents a valuable opportunity for the BMW Group. It serves as a kind of radar to help the company identify relevant developments early on. By recog nising these signs, the company can quickly identify risks and, if necessary, take corrective action to make best use of the opportunities available. By working with its stake holders, the BMW Group is able to develop solutions to complex challenges which would be virtually impossible for a company to implement alone. In this way the BMW Group can become even more sustainable. Listen, understand, act The BMW Group engages in open, transparent and un biased dialogue with its stakeholders. The company goes beyond understanding its partners' needs to systematic ally evaluate and, if appropriate, include these aspects in corporate decisions. In this way the discussions of the past have evolved into an ongoing dialogue, which the BMW Group actively structures and intends to strengthen further in the future. The operational responsibility for stake holder relations lies with the communications department based at corporate headquarters in Munich. It serves as a contact, and works with the specialist departments to handle inquiries. At individual locations worldwide, the local communications departments maintain contact with regional stakeholders. Which form of dialogue is most appropriate depends in each case on the thematic and geographical scope of the question. Stakeholder Roundtable At its first Stakeholder Roundtable in February 2009, the BMW Group brought together traffic experts from the WWF, BUND, NABU, Greenpeace and the German Environmen tal Aid Association, analysts and representatives from major investment funds from Frankfurt, Zurich and London, environmental politicians from the European, German and Bavarian Parliaments as well as scientists and experts from different German environmental institutes and the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research. They were joined by the BMW Group's Head of Product Strategy, Head of Corporate Strategy, Head of Total Vehicle Architec ture and Integration as well as further decisionmakers. The views, interests and questions voiced about sustain able mobility and the conservation of resources were just as diverse as the composition of the group. But that was the point of the BMW Group's first Stakeholder Roundtable:

to bring together different stakeholder groups, to learn and understand the other parties' points of view, and to identify a joint approach in the search for new answers. For a whole day, the experts discussed issues such as product strategies for sustainable mobility, challenges in the field of electric mobility, the advancement of Efficient Dynamics technologies as well as the question of how the BMW Group could minimise its resource consumption throughout the entire value chain. Participants discussed various possible solutions intensively and argued their re spective positions. However, there was agreement among the delegates that it is no longer possible to answer com plex questions, such as those regarding future mobility, from a single perspective, but that they require an ongoing, constructive exchange of views. The BMW Group plans to continue this form of dialogue on a regular basis. The next Stakeholder Roundtable is sched uled to take place later in the year. Stakeholder surveys The BMW Group conducted its first global stakeholder sur vey with approximately 200 respondents in late 2006. The findings were incorporated into both the last Sustainable Value Report and the revised version of the sustainability strategy. For the present report, a telephone survey was carried out in winter 2008 / 2009 among 32 representatives from the capital market, politics, NGOs and other stake holder groups. The goal of this expert survey was to evaluate the BMW Group's sustainability performance.

More than 70 % of respondents
in the stakeholder surveys regarded the BMW Group's sustainability performance as good or very good.

At the same time, the BMW Group carried out an online survey on the corporate website to assess the perception and evaluation of the company's sustainability perform ance and sustainability communications. In both surveys, the BMW Group's sustainability activities received pre dominantly high marks. Those surveyed saw room for improvement mainly in the area of alternative drive tech nologies and the reduction of carbon emissions. Some stakeholders also requested further information on the in tegration of sustainability in the value chain.

13

--a The BMW Group can only improve its sustainability per formance in close consultation with in ternal and external stakeholder groups.

--a

www.bmwgroup.com/ir

Employee surveys How do employees rate the BMW Group? How satisfied are they with their working environment, their professional development and their employer in general? These are some of the questions raised in the Groupwide global employee survey conducted regularly in more than 20 lan guages. Survey findings are discussed at all corporate levels ­ down to the smallest department ­ to initiate im provements. (For more information on the 2007 Employee Survey, please refer to Chapter 05.5.) The next survey is scheduled to start in spring 2010 and will for the first time include some questions on the perception and evaluation of the BMW Group's sustainability performance. Local dialogue At all of its locations, the BMW Group takes the concerns of its neighbours seriously. As a result, complaints are rare. The employees of the local PR departments serve as the contact for residents' queries and concerns. If there are complaints about odour or noise, for instance, these depart ments cooperate with the relevant experts to find a solu tion according to the prescribed procedure. In the event of upcoming construction activities, neighbours are in formed in advance. Plants also play an active role in their communities: The Munich plant, for example, provides meeting rooms for associations and nonprofit organisa tions based in its vicinity as part of the "Neighbourhood Forum" programme. Commitment to sustainability initiatives As a member of sustainabilityrelated expert committees and organisations, the BMW Group promotes the ongoing development of corporate sustainability. At "econsense", a sustainability forum formed by an alliance of global cor porations and organisations headquartered in Germany, BMW Group representatives serve on the Board of Trus tees, the Board of Directors and the Steering Committee. The BMW Group is also actively involved in discussing sustainability matters at the German working group of the UN Global Compact. BMW Group representatives also participate in symposia, conferences and discussions with university experts on how to support further efforts in the fields of sustainability and corporate responsibility. Roadshow for sustainability investors and analysts In autumn 2008, BMW Group representatives embarked on an SRI roadshow (SRI = Socially Responsible Investment)

to answer the questions of analysts and investors in Paris, Zurich and London. The debate mainly focused on the BMW Group fleet's carbon emissions reductions and the future potential of electric mobility. Apart from environ mental issues, participants were most interested in work force reductions and corporate governance instruments. The roadshows are followed up with frequent analyst and investor conference calls conducted by the Investor Relations department in cooperation with the BMW Group's sustainability experts. Since 2007, sustainability concepts and implementation status have been included in all corporate presentations for analysts and investors. Intensify and manage Over the course of the last two years, the BMW Group has intensified and adopted a more systematic approach to its dialogue with stakeholders. In light of increasingly com plex challenges, the exchange with different stakeholder groups is becoming increasingly important. Understood correctly, it serves as a major driver of continuous corporate improvement. Stakeholder dialogue used to be quite ir regular, but will be replaced by active stakeholder manage ment in the future.

www.econsense.de

www.unglobalcompact.org www.globalcompact.de

14

01.3

Sustainability in the supply chain. The management of the BMW Group's supplier network ­ comprising all its suppliers of components, systems and services ­ is a challenging task. The company must find a way to balance its objectives in the fields of cost competition, delivery reliability, quality and logistics on the one hand, against sustainability aspects on the other.

Page 72

www.unep.fr/scp/cp www.unglobalcompact.org www.ilo.org

UN Global Compact

The BMW Group strongly believes that corporate sustain ability can only be effective if it embraces all steps of the value chain. This is why the BMW Group not only sets the highest standards for itself, but also expects suppliers and partners to meet ecological and social standards. Sustain ability criteria of this kind are integrated throughout the company's purchasing conditions. These criteria comply with the principles of the UN Global Compact, the UN's Declaration on Cleaner Production and the conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO), to name but a few. The BMW Group's declared goal is an efficient supply chain that adheres to the same ambitious sustainability standards all around the world and at all stages of value creation. Sustainability as a purchasing criterion Responsibility for supplier management lies with the BMW Group's purchasing division which was reorganised in 2007. The division's scope of responsibilities includes the selection and validation of suppliers, traditional procurement tasks, quality assurance for supplied goods and services as well as logistics ­ and thus the implementation of sus tainability standards throughout the value chain. To prepare staff for this task, employees are made more aware of sus tainability issues and undergo internal training. Besides Central Purchasing in Munich, the BMW Group operates an international network of socalled International Purchasing Offices (IPOs) whose task it is to identify and validate local suppliers for both local production facilities and the BMW Group's international production network. Particularly in growth markets like China or India, the IPOs assist potential local suppliers in building up necessary competences, including those concerning environmental and social standards. As a result, these companies can become productive partners in the BMW Group's supplier network. Mandatory criteria included in purchasing conditions In spring 2003, the BMW Group established mandatory requirements for ecological and social responsibility in its national and international purchasing conditions. By sign ing these terms and conditions, suppliers are committing to these sustainability standards. The purchasing conditions were revised and updated ­ also with regard to sustainability issues ­ in 2009. Effective

as of autumn 2009, these conditions make it mandatory for suppliers to require Tier 2 suppliers to adhere to the same social and ecological standards. Stipulations in the purchasing conditions include the pro hibition of child and forced labour, discrimination and bribery as well as the implementation of a suitable manage ment system for occupational safety. Furthermore, by signing the purchasing conditions, suppliers are commit ting themselves to resourcesaving and environmentally friendly production. On request, key suppliers have to provide information about their energy and water con sumption as well as productionrelated carbon emissions, waste, sewage and solvents used in the production of components for the BMW Group. Suppliers are required to set up a fully functional environmental management system certified in accordance with the established stand ards ISO 14001, EMAS or equivalent certificates. Evaluating potential partners The BMW Group considers sustainability standards from the very beginning when evaluating potential suppliers. This initial analysis is based on a sustainability question naire which has to be completed by any prospective sup plier. Those who provide a detailed selfassessment and do not violate any of the BMW Group's exclusion criteria, such as child labour, move on to the next stage in the se lection process. Improving sustainability at existing suppliers Frequent quality audits at existing suppliers also test en vironmental and social standards. In the event that an established supplier is commissioned to produce a new component, the BMW Group's Quality Management is required to carry out a process audit for both quality and sustainability aspects. Direct suppliers have to prove the existence of a fully functional Tier 2 supplier management. In problematic cases, there may also be unscheduled visits. The BMW Group is resolved to monitor implementation of the ecological and social requirements stipulated in its purchasing conditions more closely. In 2008, the existing sustainability questionnaire was revised and an assess ment matrix detailing exclusion criteria for environmental protection, social standards and product development practices was adopted. The questionnaire now comprises 29 questions on social and ecological responsibility. In a

www.b2b.bmw.com

15

--a The BMW Group is in ongoing dialogue with domestic and foreign suppliers. Environmental and social standards form important guidelines for this cooperation.

--a

http://ec.europa.eu/environment/ chemicals/reach/reach_intro.htm

first step, a total of 1,046 suppliers, representing approxi mately 80 % of the BMW Group's procurement volume, were questioned about their environmental practices in early summer 2007. In the future, the updated questionnaire will be applied as a key criterion in the supplier selection process and as an assessment tool for existing suppliers. From the end of 2009 on, findings will be included in the BMW Group's supplier database to allow the company to record, evaluate and compare all suppliers' sustainability performance faster and more systematically in the future. If its sustainability requirements are violated, the BMW Group works with the supplier in question to draft a de tailed action plan. This includes an escalation schedule which, in extreme cases, may culminate in the termination of the business relationship. So far, however, the BMW Group has never had to exclude a direct supplier due to violations of social and environmental standards. Neverthe less, it is impossible to completely exclude the risk of vio lations atTier 2 suppliers. One example: the allegations made by the International Metalworkers' Federation (IMF) against a Turkish Tier 2 supplier who allegedly impinges upon employees' freedom of assembly and association. In accordance with the BMW Group's internal escalation scheme, the company has contacted the direct supplier concerned and requested that the supplier oblige the Turkish Tier 2 supplier to immediately remedy the situation. A response has already been received from the company concerned and is being examined by independent bodies, including the ILO. Holistic approach to the value chain The BMW Group not only complies with ecological and social standards but also initiates lasting improvements in the ecobalance throughout the entire value chain. A project newly launched in 2008 aims to reduce the extent to which parts are sourced from many different suppliers and the environmental impact this has. As a result, certain electronic control units are no longer transported back and forth between countries, or even continents before completion, but are produced at the most suitable loca tion according to the principle of "concentration of value added". According to the calculations of BMW Group experts, this move could reduce energy and transport costs by up to 65 %.

Environmental impact of components The BMW Group continuously manages and optimises the environmental impact of components in the sup ply chain. In 2008 alone, about 39,000 data records for series parts were transferred and assessed. All in all, the company has about 160,000 data records for series parts. The BMW Group's purchasing con ditions further define the requirements regarding the environmental impact of the components supplied. These requirements are detailed in performance specifications as well as material and component tests. Certain environmental standards ­ such as the component's recyclability ­ must be considered as soon as development scopes are commissioned or purchased parts developed. This procedure is neces sary to guarantee that the strict regulations are ad hered to throughout the entire product development process. A working group assesses risks arising from the use of certain materials and manages the selec tion process and development activities accordingly. Not only vehicle parts undergo a strictly defined vali dation process ­ the same applies to all substances and materials used in production, such as paints and adhesives. These processes are a crucial prerequisite for the implementation of environmental laws and bans on certain substances through the EU's REACH directive, for instance.

Pulling together The BMW Group not only challenges its suppliers but also supports them as much as possible. In today's difficult market climate, the number of suppliers in financial diffi culties is rising. The BMW Group uses its risk manage ment system to try to identify companies at risk of insol vency in time to help them by providing advice or other assistance.

16

01.4

Awards and indices. Evaluating the BMW Group's sustainability performance is
as complex as the company's sustainability activities are extensive and varied.

www.sustainablevalue.com

The BMW Group's Balanced Scorecard, which sets the main corporate targets, also includes sustainability targets. These are defined by the requirements of the most im portant sustainability ratings and rankings. Internally, the BMW Group is also working hard to advance procedures such as the sustainable value approach, which assesses the company's sustainability performance in monetary terms. As a rule, the BMW Group does not regard a high ranking in sustainability ratings a goal in itself. However, it is a valu able indicator in assessing the company's sustainability performance. The FTSE4Good, one of the most important indices for corporate sustainability, has listed the BMW Group for nine consecutive years. Since 2007, the company has also been included in the FTSE4Good Environmental Index of companies with excellent performance from an environ mental viewpoint. A key global barometer for sustainable companies is the group of Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes published in cooperation between Dow Jones and the Sustainable Asset Management Group (SAM). The BMW Group has now been listed as one of the top three companies for nine consecutive years. In 2008, the company was even

named Super Sector Leader ­ and therefore the most sustainable company in the automotive industry ­ for the fourth consecutive year. It was further honoured with an inclusion in the Gold Class and named a Sector Mover. Sector Movers are companies that, according to SAM analysts, have made the greatest progress in corporate sustainability over the previous year. The BMW Group's leading position in the field of sustain ability has repeatedly been confirmed by the independent ÖKOTREND Institute. In 2008, the institute awarded the BMW Group the highest number of points of all carmakers included in the evaluation, as well as a certificate for out standing corporate responsibility. Sustainability demands transparency The company's sustainability reporting was also recog nised by an independent body: In the competition for the 2007 Corporate Responsibility Reporting Award, the first global, independent reporting classification, the BMW Group's Sustainable Value Report 2007 / 2008 won the cate gory "Best Carbon Disclosure". In the 2007 ranking of the Institute for Ecological Economy Research, the report ranked tenth out of 150 reports analysed and evaluated.

www.oeko-trend.de

www.ftse.com

www.sustainability-indexes.com www.sam-group.com

www.corporateregister.com/crra_last/

www.ioew.de

The BMW Group's positioning in sustainability rankings and listings on sustainability indices from July 2007 to July 2009
Sustainability rating agencies Imug / Ethical Investment Research Services (EIRIS) Oekom Research
ÖKOTREND

Evaluation and result Evaluated (for result see FTSE4Good) Status Prime (B), second in the automotive industry
ÖKOTREND certificate: outstanding corporate responsibility (most points among all carmakers)

Scoris Sustainable Asset Management (SAM) Vigeo Sustainability indices Advanced Sustainable Performance Indices (ASPI) Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World and STOXX E. Capital Partners International (ECPI) ­ Index Family Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Global Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Pioneer Global
FTSE4Good Global Index FTSE4Good Europe Index FTSE4Good Environmental Leaders

Third in DAX 30 sustainability rating, best carmaker
SAM Sector Leader, SAM Sector Mover, SAM Gold Class (also see DJSI)

Evaluated (for result see Advanced Sustainable Performance Indices) Listing and result listed not listed Super Sector Leader 2007 and 2008 listed listed listed listed listed listed

02

17

Economics
01 02 Sustainability management 05 Economics 17 02.1 The year 2008 20 02.2 Risk management and corporate governance Product responsibility 23 Groupwide environmental protection 37 Employees 47 Society 59 22

03 04 05 06

Rooted in sustainability for lasting success.

18

02

Economics

With the launch of its corporate Strategy Number ONE, the BMW Group has created the necessary conditions for the successful combination of long-term value creation and sustainability. The company's vision is to be the world's leading provider of premium products and premium services in the automotive industry ­ and as the BMW Group sees it, this also means being a leader in the field of sustainability. From an economic point of view, issues such as
Materiality analysis ­ Economics
Highly relevant for stakeholders

compliance, anti-corruption and risk management form the backbone of corporate responsibility. The materiality analysis below demonstrates the current prioritisation of these topics at the BMW Group on the horizontal axis and their importance for stakeholders on the vertical axis. Their classification is the result of various dialogue processes.

Compliance and anti-corruption Risk management Profitability and sustained value creation

Highly relevant for the BMW Group

Issues of high relevance for stakeholders and the BMW Group, these are the focus of this Sustainable Value Report 2008.

equipped with Efficient Dynamics sold so far: The BMW Group's sales success is largely based on these innovative technologies for lower fuel consumption.
BMW Group Research and Innovation Centre in Munich

1.4 million vehicles

19

Challenges

To deal with the impact of the financial crisis on the real economy; consumer reticence due to uncertainty regarding the scope and ongoing development of the economic crisis To secure a sound financial footing and high liquidity as the basis for guaranteeing the company's room to manoeuvre

To successfully steer the BMW Group through the crisis and to secure competitive advantages for the post-crisis period To establish a fully functional early detection and monitoring system for the management of risks and opportunities in the field of corporate sustainability

Key performance indicators (KPIs)

Revenues
Page 74 et seqq.

Profit before tax
in euro million
4,500 3,750 3,000 2,250 1,500 750

in euro billion
55 50 45 40 35 30

04 44.3

05 46.7

06 49.0

07 56.0

08 53.2
*

04 * 3,583

05 3,287

06 4,124

07 3,873

08 351

adjusted for new accounting treatment of pension obligations

Return on Capital Employed
Earnings for ROCE purposes in euro million 2008
BMW Group

Capital employed in euro million 2008 28,315 14,056 432 2007 27,321 13,953 444

Return on Capital Employed in % 2008 2.3 4.9 13.9 2007 15.3 24.7 18.0

2007 4,193 3,450 80

639 690 60

Automobiles Motorcycles

Achievements

Objectives

Increased the BMW Group's global market share from 1.5 % in 2000 to 2.3 % at the end of last year Honoured with the Corporate Investment & Community Impact Award (CiCi Award) in March 2009 In the first step of the two-step implementation process for the company's compliance organisation, more than 5,100 executives participated in training on the compliance guidelines by 1 April 2009. This is 100 % of all executives targeted in the first rollout phase.

Achieving a Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) in excess of 26 % and an EBIT margin of between 8 % and 10 % in the automobile segment in 2012 Reducing material costs by over 4 billion euros by 2012 Successfully completing the second step in the implementation of the BMW Group's compliance organisation. The company plans to provide compliance training to another 3,000 executives from all international organisations

20

02.1

The year 2008. New times require a new strategic direction. Particularly in a fierce

economic environment, futureoriented growth is what a company needs to be able to take advantage of the longterm opportunities a crisis offers.

Page 74 et seqq.

UN Global Compact

Value creation a top priority The BMW Group established this prerequisite when it launched its Strategy Number ONE. The vision: to become the world's leading provider of premium products and premium services for individual mobility. To this end, the BMW Group concentrates on profitability and sustained value creation. The company's four strategic pillars also include growth, shaping the future and access to technol ogies and customers. Everything the BMW Group does is based on the twelve basic principles the Board of Management defined in Strategy Number ONE. ­ Customer orientation ­ The customer and benefit for the customer are at the heart of everything the company does. ­ Peak performance ­The company and all its employees aim to be the best. ­ Responsibility ­ Every employee shares the responsibil ity for the company's success. ­ Effectiveness ­ Only results which have a lasting effect count. ­ Adaptability ­ Flexibility as a crucial prerequisite for success. ­ Dissent ­ As we strive to find the best solution, we are frank with each other. ­ Respect, trust, fairness ­ The basis of successful co operation. ­ Employees ­ The strongest factor in a company's suc cess. ­ Leading by example ­ Every manager has to be aware that he / she is a role model and should act accordingly. ­ Sustainability ­ Acting sustainably is an element of our corporate responsibility and a contribution to value creation. ­ Society ­ Social responsibility is an integral part of our corporate selfimage. ­ Independence ­ Sustained profitable growth secures the corporate independence of the BMW Group. Automotive industry in transition Based on these principles, the BMW Group has estab lished a focused approach to master the current crisis. Priorities are to secure the company's sound financial foot ing and its liquidity as well as to develop attractive, trend setting products as timely as possible. This is why last year the BMW Group invested another 4,204 million euros (­ 1.5 % compared with 2007) in development activities. Over the past five years, the company has invested a total

of over 21 billion euros in its future, an amount that also reflects the BMW Group's technological expertise and the pace at which innovations are developed. With its corp orate Strategy Number ONE, the BMW Group is setting the course for tomorrow's dynamic growth. This is particularly important since the automotive industry is currently experiencing its most profound transformation ever. In 2008, the BMW Group, like others, suffered from worsening business conditions triggered by various ex ogenous and endogenous factors. In the second half of last year, the economic crisis led to a noticeable reluctance to buy among customers. In the light of the persistent un certainty about ongoing economic developments, a much lower number of consumers decided to buy a new or pre owned BMW Group vehicle. In addition to the negative effects from the US dollar and the British pound, the inter national capital markets also saw an increase in refinancing costs. Irrespective of the current state of the economy, raw material prices remained at an extraordinarily high level throughout the year. Endogenous strains included the additional costs of the scheduled workforce reductions (see Chapter 05). Model cycle effects also intensified the negative development of BMW Group automobile sales in 2008. 2008 sales, revenues and profits BMW Group's global automobile sales declined by 4.3 % in comparison with the previous year although, at more than 1.4 million vehicles sold, the company was still able to post the secondbest sales result in its history. As for BMW motorcycles, sales remained almost stable at 101,685 (­ 0.8 %). Overall, these developments amounted to a 5 % decrease in BMW Group revenues to 53,197 million euros, thereof 48,782 million euros in the automobile segment (­ 9.4 %) and 1,230 million euros in the motorcycle segment. Revenues in the Financial Services segment rose by 12.8 % to 15,725 million euros. At 4,471 million euros, the operating cash flow was down 28.4 % yearonyear. The negative effects of the crisis were most obvious in the profit, which was particularly affected by the additional risk provisions. This negative tendency was exacerbated by increased refinancing costs as a result of higher risk spreads on the capital markets. Last but not least, in the second half of 2008, consumer reticence resulting from the global economic and financial crisis was becoming in

BMW Group Annual Report 2008

www.bmwgroup.com/guidelines

21

BMW Group Value added 2008
GRI G3 Indicator EC1

in % 64.8

Employees

Cost of materials

Net value added Cost of materials Depreciation and amortisation

19.3 56.5 14.1 10.1

Net value added

Other expenses

27.0 5.1 1.9 1.2

Providers of finance Government / public sector Shareholders Group
Other expenses Depreciation and amortisation

Quarterly Report of the BMW Group to 31 March 2009

creasingly noticeable. All in all, EBIT (earnings before inter est and taxes) decreased by 78.1 % from the previous year to 921 million euros. Profits before tax dropped by 90.9 % to 351 million euros. The BMW Group reacted early on by implementing staff cutbacks. By the end of 2008, the number of permanent employees had decreased by 7,498 (­ 7.0 %) to 100,041 ­ thanks to natural attrition and a severance programme. At some sites, the company introduced shorttime work in spring 2009 to secure the jobs of its highperforming per manent staff (more information in Chapter 05). Comprehensive value creation and ratings Net value added of the BMW Group declined by 25.7 % to 10,469 million euros, mainly as the result of declining sales revenues. Gross value added, which was not affected by the increase in depreciation and amortisation compared with the previous year, was down 10.6 %. Current expenses for tax on earnings amounted to 75 million euros world wide, deferred taxes to ­ 54 million euros. In 2008, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index World listed the BMW Group as the leading automotive company
Short and long-term ratings of BMW AG (as of 31 August 2009)
Standard & Poor's Shortterm rating Longterm rating Outlook A1 A negative Moody's P2 A3 negative

worldwide for the fourth consecutive year. The company is also assessed by the rating agencies Moody's and Stand ard & Poor's. The BMW Group has one of the best ratings in the auto motive industry. Regional impetus Despite the difficult situation in 2008, the BMW Group con tinued to set the course for further growth at all locations worldwide and thus managed to strengthen its competitive position for years to come. The BMW plant in Spartanburg, South Carolina (USA), is currently being expanded to add a new paint shop and an additional assembly hall. The BMW Group is investing around 750 million US dollars in this expansion. Since 1992, a total of 4.6 billion US dollars has been invested in the South Carolina plant. The next generation of the BMW X3 will make the Spartanburg plant the BMW Group's main production site for the X model family. The plant already achieved an annual production of over 170,000 vehicles in 2008, a first in the plant's history. In India, the BMW Group complemented the assembly plant in Chennai, set up in March 2007, with training centres for retail staff. The BMW Group's third organisa tional unit in the Indian market, the New Delhibased Inter national Purchasing Office, is responsible for validating suppliers as partners for the BMW Group, thus giving them access to the international markets.

For further explanations of the ratings, please refer to page 13 of the BMW Group's firstquarter reporting 2009.

22

02.2

of any entrepreneurial activity. Companies that are unwilling to take risks are also unable to take advantage of opportunities. As a global corporation, the BMW Group is exposed to numerous and increasingly complex risks.

Risk management and corporate governance. Risks are at the heart

UN Global Compact

Risk management The integrated risk management system is the BMW Group's wellproven tool for identifying, evaluating and managing all potential risks. It helps the company to initiate countermeasures in time or to exploit entrepreneurial opportunities by taking certain calculable risks. As a rule, sustainability concerns are an integral part of the BMW Group's risk management. With its decentralised structure and a Groupwide network of risk officers, the BMW Group's risk management system promotes the balanced handling of risks at all organisa tional levels. Risks arising from environmental impacts and the use of resources are assessed and, if necessary, re ported by the Group Representative for Sustainability and Environmental Protection. All risks identified by specialist areas are recorded by the central Risk Management Steering Committee, assessed and ­ in the case of sub stantial risks ­ reported to the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. The BMW Group's risk management is frequently evaluated by internal and external auditors with regard to its ade quacy and effectiveness. According to their assessment, the system is able to identify any developments early on that might pose a threat to the company's status as a going concern. Corporate governance In all its activities, the BMW Group builds upon the prin ciples of corporate governance geared to longterm value creation. In 2002, the company developed a company specific Corporate Governance Codex which was designed in accordance with the German Corporate Governance Code and updated when a revised version of the DCGK was published. Compliance and anti-corruption The law and an internal code of conduct require the BMW Group's management and employees to comply with the applicable regulations (compliance). Nevertheless, it is impossible to entirely rule out the possibility of violations of the law. In order to prevent them, BMW AG's Board of Management set up a Compliance Committee in 2007. This committee is responsible for establishing the global BMW Group's compliance organisation as well as for

managing and monitoring all required activities to prevent violations of the law (legal compliance). It also reports to the Board of Management on relevant compliancerelated activities. The BMW Group Compliance Committee operates through the recently established Compliance Committee Office which forms part of the Chairman of the Board of Management's division. The BMW Group's compliance organisation implements measures and programmes focused on guaranteeing the legitimacy of everything the company and its employees do. Its activities are based on the Legal Compliance Code (LCC) which is available to all employees. In 2008, BMW Group's compliance organisation was launched at BMW AG and several German subsidiaries; the inter national rollout is scheduled for 2009. In the first stage of the twostep implementation process, some 5,100 executives at BMW AG and several German subsidiaries (making up 100 % of all employees targeted) participated in webbased basic compliance training. In the second step, currently in progress, another 3,000plus executives in international BMW Group organisations are participating in the same training course. Employees as well as members of the general public who are interested in compliance matters can approach the BMW Group Compliance Contact. This service unit can also be contacted by those who wish to point out weak spots and violations of the law on the part of the BMW Group. On request, the source of the information is kept confidential. The compliance committee office follows up on any inquiry or incident reported. BMW Group em ployees can also refer to the compliancewebsite on the BMW Group intranet for detailed information on the com pliance organisation and its activities as well as on com pliance training. Fact is, the BMW Group does not tolerate any violations of the law. Corporate Auditing and Corporate Security frequently monitor the implementation of and compliance with the code of conduct. Furthermore, Corporate Auditing will carry out onsite evaluations and interview employees. An intentional violation of the law may result in labour law consequences and in the personal liability of respective employees.

www.bmwgroup.com/ir

BMW Group Annual Report 2008 For further details on the risk management system, please see pages 62 ­ 67

BMW Group Annual Report 2008 For further details on corporate governance and compliance, please see pages 138 ­ 147

www.bmwgroup.com/governance www.corporate-governance-code.de

www.bmwgroup.com/compliance

03

23

Product responsibility
01 02 03 Sustainability management 05 Economics 17 Product responsibility 23 03.1 Understanding and embedding 26 03.2 Technologies for sustainable mobility 29 03.3 Vehicle safety 32 03.4 Traffic management and mobility research 03.5 Recycling 35 03.6 Customer satisfaction 36 Groupwide environmental protection 37 Employees 47 Society 59

34

04 05 06

Revolutions start in the streets. The green revolution starts in the mind.

24

03

Product responsibility

The BMW Group can only achieve long-term success by answering questions about its products' environmental and social impact. That is why the company is in close dialogue with relevant stakeholder groups to address global challenges such as climate change. The following materiality analysis shows the BMW Group's priorities during
Materiality analysis ­ Product responsibility
Highly relevant for stakeholders

the reporting period on the horizontal axis. Issues with lower priority are not necessarily less important, but represent processes which have already become standard throughout the Group. The vertical axis shows the importance of these issues for stakeholders as mentioned in various surveys and at the first Stakeholder Roundtable.

Fuel consumption and carbon emissions Active and passive safety Promoting consumer responsibility Product recycling Life cycle analysis Alternative drive technologies Vehicle emissions (noise, NOX, etc.) Customer satisfaction Future traffic concepts

Highly relevant for the BMW Group

Issues of high relevance for stakeholders and the BMW Group, these are the focus of this Sustainable Value Report 2008. Issues of medium relevance for stakeholders and the BMW Group, these are described in less detail.

reduction in the CO2 emissions of the BMW Group's new vehicle fleet in Europe between 1995 and 2008 thanks to Efficient Dynamics. At the same time, the company is also working on new drive concepts: The Oxford plant has built more than 600 fully electric MINI E cars that are currently being tested by customers in Europe and the US in everyday use.
Production at the MINI Plant Oxford (UK)

Nearly 27 %

25

Challenges

Further reduction of environmentally-harmful carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from conventional drives Lack of infrastructure and standardisation for electric drives; absence of mature battery technology Global and regional mobility requirements in the context of changing economic, ecological, social and infrastructure conditions

Requirements of active and passive vehicle safety due to increasing traffic volume and demographic change, with the goal of protecting vehicle passengers and other road users Consideration of global requirements for the recycling of end-of-life vehicles which vary greatly from country to country

Key performance indicators (KPIs)

Development of CO2 emissions of BMW Group cars in Europe (EU-15)
Page 78 et seqq.

(Index: 1995 = 100; Basis: fleet consumption of newly registered cars in Europe (EU15) measured on the basis of the New European Driving Cycle in accordance with the ACEA commitment)
105 100 95 90 85 80 75 70

95 100.0
*

96 101.0

97 102.4

98 101.0

99 98.6

00 96.7

01 96.7

02 92.9

03 92.9

04 94.8

05 90.0

06 88.6

07 80.0

08 * 73.3

CO2 emissions of newly registered cars in Europe for 2008 stood at 154 grams CO2 / km driven (EU15) and 156 grams CO2 / km driven (EU27).

CO2 emissions of BMW Group vehicles (EU-27)
Fleet consumption of newly registered vehicles in Europe (EU15 / EU27) in the New European Driving Cycle in grams CO2 / km
190 170 150 130

05* 189
* **

06* 186

07 168

08 156

15 < 140 **

Values for 2005 and 2006 refer to EU15. The target is based on longterm production planning. The target for the introductory period 2012 to 2014 is to meet the EU's CO2 emissions performance standards for passenger cars.

Achievements

Objectives

Reduction of nearly 27 % in carbon emissions of BMW Group new cars in the EU between 1995 and 2008 More than 600 MINI E cars in an electric mobility pilot project Proving suitability of the BMW Hydrogen 7 for everyday use with a small series of 100 cars and nearly 4 million kilometres driven Product safety awards for BMW Group vehicles, e. g. inclusion of the BMW X3 and X5 in the 2008 Top Safety Pick of IIHS (Insurance Institute for Highway Safety) Development of recycling concepts for hybrid batteries both for service garages and end-of-life vehicle recycling

Achieving CO2 fleet emissions of below 140 grams CO2 / km for all new BMW Group vehicles in Europe by 2015 Reaching series maturity for electric-drive vehicles (Megacity Vehicle) in connection with "project i" in the first half of the next decade Improving vehicle safety by integrating active and passive safety systems and developing preventive measures particularly in the areas of passenger, partner and pedestrian protection by 2015 Completing and publishing the ifmo study "Future of Mobility ­ Scenarios for 2030"

26

03.1

Understanding and embedding. To ensure its longterm success and future viability, the BMW Group must assume full responsibility for its products. That is why, to the BMW Group, product responsibility means providing answers to questions about the quality, impact and future of its own products.

Page 78

The focus is on developing individual mobility in a way that improves safety, conserves resources and protects the climate. The company is actively seeking groundbreaking new solutions that go beyond anything seen so far and will help improve products throughout their entire life cycle. A carmaker with such a comprehensive understanding of its product responsibility ­ considering it in every aspect of its activities and implementing it consistently ­ is also pro moting the concept of premium mobility. It is a given for the BMW Group that sustainability will play a much greater role in defining premium in the future. Responsibility throughout the vehicle's lifetime For the BMW Group, responsibility starts with developing vehicles that are fuelefficient and safe for both the driver and other road users. The company's comprehensive approach embraces environmentally and resourcefriendly development and production processes and a wide range of highquality customer services as well as recycling con cepts which guarantee that BMW Group vehicles impact the environment as little as possible, including at the end of their lives. In the area of product responsibility, the BMW Group has defined the following six core areas for action: ­ Reducing fuel consumption and CO2 emissions: The BMW Group already implements fuelefficiency in novations that significantly reduce the fuel consumption of today's cars. The company's engineers are constantly working on taking these technologies to the next level. ­ Developing alternative drive concepts: The BMW Group is vigorously pursuing the hybridisation of the drive train as well as the development of electric cars and hydrogen mobility solutions. ­ Refining traffic management concepts: The BMW Group's mobility experts are working on mo bility projects aimed at improving traffic flow. Together with infrastructure partners, they are looking at ways to improve the flow of traffic in urban centres, thereby minimising environmental impact. ­ Active and passive safety: The company applies a comprehensive vehicle safety concept that involves improving active safety to prevent accidents and passive safety to minimise the conse quences of accidents. ­ Product recycling: The BMW Group also assumes responsibility for its vehicles at the end of their lifetime. Early in development,

UN Global Compact

www.bmwgroup.com/ sustainablemobility

the company ensures that 95 % of vehicle components can be recycled later on. ­ Customer satisfaction: Ultimately, it all comes down to the BMW Group's cus tomers ­ since it is they who determine the company's success. The customer is at the heart of everything the BMW Group does and so the company's standards are: top quality and reliability of vehicles, as well as maximum customer service satisfaction. Focus on reducing CO2 and fuel consumption On a global scale, passenger car traffic accounts for 7 % to 10 % (depending on the source) and general traffic for 17 % to 20 % of global carbon emissions. In terms of the vehicle life cycle, 15 % of a car's carbon emissions arise in the supply chain and in production, and 85 % during its time of use. Markets such as the US, Japan, Korea, China and Europe are introducing increasingly strict carbon emissions per formance requirements for vehicles. In early 2009, for instance, the European Union passed a bill requiring all carmakers to reduce carbon emissions of their new car fleets to an average of 130 grams CO2 / km by 2015. The exact fleet value to be achieved by each manufacturer is calculated based on the individual vehicle's weight. 65 % of all new cars are to meet this target in 2012, 75 % in 2013, and 80 % in 2014, before full compliance is achieved in 2015. Today's customers are aware that cars with combustion engines also contribute to climate change. This is why environmental aspects, such as fuel efficiency and emis sions, play a much greater role in customers' purchase decisions than they used to. Carmakers thus need to strike an acceptable balance between customers' demands and ecological imperatives. The BMW Group identified this trend early on and has acted accordingly. The reduction of carbon emissions has long been a corporate objective. As a result, the BMW Group has become a pioneer in the advancement of futureoriented, environmentallyfriendly mobility solutions ­ and is set to expand its lead even further. Setting the pace for new technologies Back in 2000, the BMW Group launched Efficient Dynamics, a development strategy that today brings tangible bene fits for the environment, resource conservation and cus tomers. CO2 emissions of the BMW Group's new vehicles in Europe (EU15) fell by close to 27 % between 1995 and 2008.

www.ipcc.ch

www.bmwgroup.com/ sustainablemobility www.bmw.com/efficientdynamics

27

--a The BMW Group's aerodynamics test centre: Lowering a car's air resistance by 10 % reduces fuel consumption on the road by about 2.5 %.

--a

At the same time, the company is also working on entirely new drive and mobility concepts ­ because the leaps in efficiency necessitated by climate change and dwindling resources can only be achieved through an approach that is evolutionary with regard to vehicle enhancement, but revolutionary overall. But how can a company enhance its products and revolutionise its approach at the same time? How can far-reaching improvements be implemented across the entire product range while advancing technological development with flagship models? The Efficient Dynamics development strategy details the three steps that define the BMW Group's approach to sustainable mobility:
Sustainability in the life cycle of a BMW Group vehicle

1. The Efficient Dynamics innovation package for reducing fuel consumption and CO2 emissions lays the foundation. The package comprises high-efficiency petrol and diesel engines, lightweight construction and improved aerodynamics as well as a sophisticated energy management system with technical features such as the Auto Start Stop function and brake energy regeneration. Efficient Dynamics is available as standard in all markets and across the entire product line-up. It thereby achieves a positive effect not only in individual niche models but throughout the entire fleet. Since the launch of the first models equipped with the Efficient Dynamics innovations in spring 2007, more than 1.4 million vehicles featuring the package have been sold. The BMW Group will continue to develop vehicles with exceptionally low consumption in the future. The BMW 320d EfficientDynamics Edition presented at the

Research and development
Life cycle assessment Design for recycling Alternative drive concepts Efficient Dynamics

Recycling concepts

Clean Production

Recycling
End-of-life recovery

Production
Sustainability standards for suppliers Environmentally-friendly logistics concepts

Traffic management concepts

Fuel efficiency concepts

Product utilisation

28

--a The BMW Group has used Efficient Dynamics to reduce the CO2 emis sions of its new vehicle fleet by more than any other automobile manu facturer. It currently offers 32 models with CO2 emissions of 140 grams CO2 / km or less.

--a

2009 IAA Frankfurt Motor Show boasts CO2 emissions of only 109 grams CO2 / km. 2. In a second step, the company further boosts fuel effi ciency by electrifying the drive train and introducing com prehensive hybrid solutions. In 2009, two vehicles ­ the BMW ActiveHybrid X6 and the BMW ActiveHybrid 7 ­ will reach series maturity. Compared to other models powered by a conventional combustion engine only, these models will reduce fuel consumption by up to 20 %. 3. In the long term, the BMW Group is counting on the positive effect of electric mobility and the use of regen eratively produced hydrogen. The company is currently carrying out a pilot project with more than 600 MINI E ve hicles to gain valuable insights from the everyday use of electric cars. The findings will be analysed and imple mented by "project i", a new organisational unit established as part of corporate Strategy Number ONE to develop entirely new mobility concepts for urban centres. The first "Megacity Vehicle" with a fully electric drive is due for re lease in the first half of the next decade.
CO2 strategies for vehicles and fleet The BMW Group's remarkable accomplishments in redu cing fuel consumption are the result of a comprehensive CO2 reduction strategy. The BMW Group's strategic prin ciples of vehicle development are as follows:

­ The Efficient Dynamics technology is available as standard equipment in all BMW Group vehicles. But premium also means never standing still. The BMW Group's next goal is to meet the EU legislation's fleet target by 2015 and to achieve average carbon emissions for all new BMW Group vehicles sold in Europe of 140 grams of CO2 / km or less. The BMW Group will also comply with the carbon emissions and fuel consumption standards yet to be finalised for introduction in the US. To meet the fleet target, the BMW Group has defined spe cific CO2 targets for each product line and each new vehicle project. The organisational unit CO2 Strategy, which re ports directly to the Board of Management, is responsible for monitoring progress and refining these targets. In the area Total Vehicle Architecture and Integration, the specially created Efficient Dynamics division coordinates the devel opment and implementation of fuelefficient technologies. The two units work hand in hand to guarantee that all ve hicle projects meet their targets for the conservation of re sources and climate protection ­ no matter how ambitious these targets might be.

­ All BMW Group vehicles are the leaders in their respec tive segments with regard to the bestpossible combin ation of efficiency and dynamics performance.

CO2 emissions management in vehicle projects

Board of Management

Organisational unit CO2 Strategy

Vehicle projects

Organisational unit Efficient Dynamics

Specialist departments
­ ­ ­ ­ Drive systems Chassis Body Electric / Electronic / Driver's cockpit

Targets Reporting

Requirements Activities

29

03.2

Technologies for sustainable mobility. Companies that want to shape future individual mobility have to break new ground. This means tapping into savings potentials which used to be offlimits and developing technologies that boost vehicle efficiency. It also means promoting drive systems that will one day be emissionsfree.

Page 78 et seqq.

The BMW Group is putting every effort into developing a whole range of innovative technologies that will gradually cut its vehicles' fuel consumption. Other priorities include reducing vehicle emissions, assuring biofuel compatibility for vehicles and engines and, obviously, developing pion eering alternative drive concepts. Efficient Dynamics Efficient Dynamics is at the core of these efforts. It is a strategy that guarantees a significant reduction in fuel con sumption and emissions across the entire model range. The strategy, adopted in 2000, marks a true paradigm shift in automotive engineering: in the past, fuelefficient models usually meant compromising comfort, performance and safety ­ which made these models less successful. Most of them were niche models equipped with expensive special equipment. The BMW Group's philosophy is quite different: Since March 2007, Efficient Dynamics innovations have gradually been introduced in all model series as standard equipment ­ which means they automatically make an impact with each vehicle sold. These innovations include: ­ Optimised engine and transmission technologies (e. g. petrol engines with High Precision Injection as well as highefficiency diesel engines) ­ Lightweight construction and improved aerodynamics (e. g. the intelligent use of aluminium and highstrength steels) ­ Energy management (e. g. brake energy regeneration and Auto Start Stop function) Number one in CO2 reductions By the end of 2008, the BMW Group had invested a total of approximately 1.2 billion euros in the development of Efficient Dynamics. More than 1.4 million vehicles with the fuel saving technologies as standard equipment have been sold. Efficient Dynamics has thus made a significant con tribution to reducing the carbon emissions of its vehicle fleet and to climate protection. Between 1995 and the end of 2008, the BMW Group reduced CO2 emissions of its new vehicle fleet in EU15 countries by close to 27 %, ex ceeding the voluntary commitment of the European Auto mobile Manufacturers' Association (ACEA). At an average fuel consumption of 5.9 litres of diesel or 6.6 litres of petrol per 100 kilometres and average CO2 emissions of 158 grams CO2 / km, MINI and BMW vehicles clearly perform better than the average of all new cars

registered in Germany in 2008. No other carmaker in Europe has reduced carbon emissions as much as the BMW Group in the last two years. These achievements have not escaped the attention and appreciation of customers. Particularly in markets where CO2based motor vehicle taxes apply, Efficient Dynamics gives the BMW Group a considerable competitive advan tage and also benefits customers. In these countries, run ning costs for BMW Group vehicles are much lower than those of comparable models. As a result, preowned BMW Group vehicles equipped with Efficient Dynamics achieve much higher resale values ­ an argument that has also convinced corporate and government customers. Major companies, including accounting firms and retail groups, as well as the Austrian federal government and several Austrian state governments, have switched their vehicle fleets to BMW Group models. Next steps Development engineers are also already working on the next steps to cut fuel consumption. The BMW Group is presenting its BMW Vision EfficientDynamics concept car powered by a threecylinder turbo diesel engine and two electric motors at the 2009 IAA Frankfurt Motor Show. With a total performance of 262 kW / 356 horsepower, it achieves fuel consumption of only 3.76 litres per 100 kilo metres and carbon emissions of 99 grams CO2 / km in the EU test cycle. This concept car showcases the full poten tial of BMW ActiveHybrid Technology and the innovative power of Efficient Dynamics.
BMW Group experts use research vehicles to investigate how exhaust heat could be utilised. There are several possibilities: One innovative technology is the socalled thermoelectric generator which generates energy in the ex haust system from the difference in temperature between the exhaust air and the cooling water. According to fore casts, this technology could theoretically generate up to 1,000 watts of energy for the onboard electrical system. Current research vehicles reach a level of 350 watts. The savings potential: an enhancement in fuel efficiency of up to 5 %. However, target fulfilment in this area will require a significant improvement in the efficiency of the generators available.

www.bmwgroup.com/ sustainablemobility www.bmw.com/efficientdynamics

www.bmwgroup.com/science

www.acea.be

Environmentally-friendly vehicle technologies The BMW Group applies an array of additional innovations to cut carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions, as well

30

--a High Precision Injection is one of many Efficient Dynamics innovations. --b The Auto Start Stop function alone accounts for fuel savings of 3 % in the EU test cycle.

--a

--b

as noise, to reduce the environmental impact of its vehicle fleet. Particulates reduced, emissions standards met Since spring 2007, the BMW Group has fulfilled the com mitment of the German automotive industry to equip all new diesel passenger cars for the German market with a particulate filter. The company also offers retrofit kits for almost all models from emissions standard Euro 3 and Euro 4 on. Starting in autumn 2009, the BMW Group will offer 90 models that, thanks to their low nitrogen oxide (NOx ) emissions, meet Euro 5 requirements. From 2014 on, the new Euro 6 standard will once again tighten emissions performance limits for diesel passenger cars. Depending on the specific vehicle and engine combination, the BMW Group will use technologies such as the NOx stor age catalytic converter and the SCR (Selective Catalytic Reduction) catalytic converter to guarantee compliance with the strict future regulations. In September 2008, the BMW 330d with optional BMW BluePerformance tech nology became the first car to meet the Euro 6 emissions standard. In autumn 2009, it will be joined by the BMW 730d with optional BluePerformance technology. Reducing noise Besides reductions in fuel consumption and emissions, the BMW Group is also working to minimise the noise pollution caused by road traffic. To a certain extent, meas ures to cut fuel consumption and emissions also reduce the amount of noise a vehicle makes. The Auto Start Stop function, for instance, prevents unnecessary engine idle times at traffic lights and in traffic congestion, while the gear shift indicator keeps the revolution rate low by select ing higher gears, also reducing the volume of engine noise. Numerous types of wheels mounted by the BMW Group already comply with planned stricter noise standards. Assistance for efficient driving One of the main instruments for reducing fuel consumption lies firmly in the hands of the driver ­ because personal driving style can influence fuel consumption by up to 30 %. This is why the BMW Group offers customers technolo gies such as the gear shift indicator or the fuel consump tion gauge that help drivers adopt a more fuelefficient driving style. Future navigation systems will allow drivers to select the most fuelefficient route. Customers can also

attend special driver training to learn how to drive in a more fuelefficient and responsible manner. A specific training course on fuelsaving methods teaches drivers how to drive economically. Furthermore, all BMW driver training includes an efficientdriving module. Biofuel compatibility Biofuels are a widely discussed option in the debate about alternative, resourcefriendly fuels. The BMW Group sup ports the use of fuels from renewable raw materials in the traffic sector in principle. This is why all BMW Group vehicles are compatible with either the E10 standard (max. 10 % of ethanol mixed with petrol) or the B7 standard (max. 7 % of biodiesel mixed with regular diesel). Going beyond the B7 standard, hydrogenated vegetable oil provides a further opportunity to boost the percentage of biogenic material in diesel fuels. Secondgeneration biofuels (e. g. BiomasstoLiquid, BtL) provide further potential for climate protection. These fuels do not compete with food for agricultural land as they are generated from agricultural waste products and are there fore superior to today's biofuels in terms of their life cycle assessment. Nevertheless, subsidy policies must be co ordinated on the basis of a standardised evaluation of dif ferent biofuels before these benefits can be realised. An other prerequisite for promoting the general acceptance of biofuels is the introduction of minimum standards and internationally accepted certification procedures for the sustainable production of biofuels. This is the only way of factoring in the ecological impact of cultivation conditions that vary from country to country and of preventing biofuels from competing with food production. Alternative drive concepts The medium to longterm future lies in alternative drives that require no fossil fuels. Electric drives and drives powered by hydrogen generated by renewable energy offer the greatest potential. The BMW Group is therefore working intensively to advance both hydrogen technology and electric mobility. Pioneering BMW hybrid technology The BMW Group's first hybrid series vehicles ­ the BMW ActiveHybrid X6 and the BMW ActiveHybrid 7 ­ will be presented at the 2009 IAA Frankfurt Motor Show. These

31

--c Customers in the US and in Europe are currently testing more than 600 fully electric MINI E cars on the roads. --d The BMW Group is working with energy providers to create a renewable energy infrastructure for future electric mobility.

--c

--d

vehicles combine the benefits of an electric drive with those of a combustion engine. Unlike the hybrid models available today, BMW ActiveHybrid technology not only improves efficiency in city traffic but also in longdistance travel, which allows for efficiency enhancements of up to 20 % compared with conventional combustion engines. In the future, the company will be able to choose the most suitable hybrid solution for each model from a wide range of hybrid modules. Electric mobility pilot project In 2007, the BMW Group launched "project i", its most am bitious project for the development of totally new vehicle concepts so far. The project team, which draws on expertise and capacities from all areas of the BMW Group, not only develops vehicles with electric drives but also other con cepts to reduce vehicles' environmental impact along the entire value chain. In a first step, the team launched a project to build 600 fully electric (Battery Electric Vehicle, BEV) MINI cars. These cars have meanwhile been handed over to private and cor porate customers in the US, the UK and Germany. The MINI E is manufactured at the Oxford MINI plant while the engines are assembled at BMW's Munich plant. The car has a 150 kW electric drive and highperformance lithium ion batteries that allow for a top speed of 152 km / h. Thanks to the energy storage system, the car has a range of up to 250 kilometres and can be recharged at a special charging unit, the socalled wall box, in only 2.5 hours. This achievement makes the BMW Group one of the first manufacturers to provide a large number of electric cars with lithiumion batteries to customers to drive on the roads. The tests in New York, Los Angeles, Berlin and London, which are scheduled to last one year, will provide the de velopers involved in "project i" with valuable insights into the everyday use of the car and the further development of electric mobility. Test participants are interviewed about their experiences and keep a driver's log. The car itself records usage data. The BMW Group also plans to forward all this information to scientists and politicians to ensure the fastest possible creation of an efficient and environ mentallyfriendly infrastructure for electric mobility as well as the necessary framework.

Based on the data collected, the BMW Group will launch an electric drive series vehicle as early as the first half of the next decade. This socalled Megacity Vehicle will be the first of a range of lowemissions vehicles, available with the customer's choice of an electric drive or combustion engine. The sales forecast for electric cars in Germany anticipates a onedigit percentage range for the years up to 2020 and a rise to about 10 % and above by 2030. One thing is clear: Current battery technology does not yet have the range, quality or lifespan to offer customers an attractive alternative. As far as the necessary infrastructure is concerned, energy providers, politicians and carmakers are still in the early stages of the learning curve: Electric mobility is a zeroemissions option only when the energy consumed comes from renewable and carbonfree sources. But it is also clear that the experiences currently being gathered in this way will fundamentally change the form and ecological impact of individual mobility. Almost 4 million hydrogen-driven kilometres The BMW Group has developed another pioneering drive technology in the shape of the hydrogenpowered BMW Hydrogen 7. Hydrogen combustion is carbonneutral and virtually emissionsfree. A first small series of 100 cars has been in use since 2007 and has so far covered a total dis tance of almost 4 million kilometres. In collaboration with TOTAL, the BMW Group opened the first hydrogen filling station in Brussels in June 2008. Although developers are still working on optimising individual vehicle components, the BMW Hydrogen 7 has already proved the suitability of hydrogen drives for series production and everyday use. However, a comprehensive rollout will depend on the creation of a hydrogen infrastructure. Now it is up to pol iticians and the energy sector to take appropriate action.

www.bmwgroup.com/ sustainablemobility

32

03.3

Vehicle safety. The safety of our customers, and that of all road users, is a key element of the BMW Group's product responsibility. It is the BMW Group's aim to prevent accidents and ­ wherever this is not possible ­ to minimise the consequences.

With its integral vehicle safety concept, comprising both passive measures to mitigate accidents as well as nu merous active safety technologies, the BMW Group is making a major contribution to accident prevention. The company is also involved in a number of projects de signed to make traffic flow more smoothly and more safely. The accident research unit at the Munichbased Research and Innovation Centre (FIZ) is in charge of these efforts at the BMW Group. Its safety experts have been analysing serious accidents for over 30 years and evaluating the data provided by the Federal Statistical Office, the accident re search project GIDAS (German InDepth Accident Study) and US statistics such as NASS (National Accident Sam pling System) and FARS (Fatality Analysis Report System). Important cooperation partners for the BMW Group for an alysing and evaluating accident data include the accident specialists at various Munich hospitals as well as those at the renowned US William Lehman Injury Research Center in Miami. These studies also focus on future challenges in road safety, such as those arising from an aging society and future mobility with electric cars. Passive technology for accident mitigation Over the past few years, the BMW Group has continuously expanded its testing facilities for research into accident

www.gidas.org

causes and consequences. The company invested 5 mil lion euros to remodel its crashtest facility in Aschheim near Munich in 2007. Besides conventional rear and side impact tests, the facility also allows for test scenarios which go beyond those required by vehicle registration author ities and consumer protection organisations. This is where the BMW Group uses special deformation elements to test its passive safety technologies like airbags and sturdy body structures, following its own, highly exacting require ments. These technologies are used whenever the possi bilities of preventing an accident have been exhausted, to help mitigate accidents for vehicle passengers. A more recent development is the crashactive headrest that has complemented standard airbags for front, head and thorax protection in numerous BMW Group models (BMW 3, 5, 6 and 7 Series, BMW X3, X5 and RollsRoyce) as an option since 2007. In the event of a collision, the system ­ which is controlled by security electronics ­ en sures that the front part of the headrest can moves up to 60 millimetres towards the front and up to 40 millimetres upwards. This increases the stabilising function of the headrest and prevents whiplash one of the most frequent injuries in case of an accident.

The BMW 7 Series as an example for active and passive safety features
Turning off fuel supply Opening central locking Rollover detection Emergency call Safety battery terminal
ISOFIX child seat mounting in the back

Driver and front passenger airbag Knee airbag Side airbags Head airbags

Pretensioner in the front Belt tensioner in the front Adaptive belt face limiter in the front Crashactive headrests in the front HeadUp Display

Night Vision with pedestrian recognition Active Cruise Control with Stop & Go function Lane Departure Warning Lane Change Warning Side View Collision warning Speed limit info

Rear view camera

Adaptive Brake Lights Hazardwarning lights Electronic Damper Control (EDC) Integrated Chassis Management (ICM) Braking pressure adjustment Braking pressure prefilling Adaptive Brake Assistant Runflat tyres Tyre pressure control Headlamp range control Adaptive Headlights High beam assistance

33

--a The AMULETT research project is designed to prevent accidents involving pedestrians. --b In the future, motorcycles will communicate with cars via ConnectedRide (research project). Thanks to a cross traffic assistant, this could help prevent accidents at intersections. --a --b

Fewer accidents thanks to active safety All of these measures only come into play if an accident has actually occurred. But it is obviously much better to prevent a collision from happening altogether. This is why the BMW Group focuses on the most important factor in preventing accidents: the driver. Today's vehicles include a vast variety of highsensibility driver assistance systems that provide valuable information. Just a few examples: Active Cruise Control and Lane Departure Warning assist the driver in driving safely. Intervention systems such as integral active steering and Dynamic Drive, a system that reduces the car's rolling motion, stabilise the car in critical situations and optimise handling characteristics. Intelligent navigation systems and the speed limit indicator provide the driver with relevant data about the traffic situation and the speed limit. The latestgeneration BMW 7 Series presented in the autumn of 2008 includes four additional driver assistance systems: The Lane Change Warning and Collision warning (warns the driver of vehicles in the blind spot of the rearview mirrors and, also if there is not enough distance between the car in front), the Side View (allows identification of crosstraffic at blind intersections) as well as the new Night Vision system with pedestrian recognition that warns the driver ahead of dangerous situations in the dark (see also Chapter 06.2). Road safety for all ages Step by step, innovations like these are extended to in clude more BMW models. At the same time BMW Group researchers are developing solutions to master challenges which will only fully emerge in the longer term. One of these challenges is the aging society in industrialised countries. Although many older people drive more care fully and defensively than younger people, this does not always help them to offset the disadvantages of age, such as limited movements. Eyesight and reaction speed also decrease over the years, making driving at twilight or at night particularly dangerous. Support comes in the form of Side View, automatic emergency call systems, parking and lane departure assistants. Modern driving safety tech nology helps everybody, not just older drivers. But older road users do in fact benefit more from technical innova tions. Take crosstraffic assistants that assist the driver in complicated traffic situations: Studies show that the per centage of older drivers involved in accidents at intersections is disproportionately high. But how can such accidents be prevented? One answer could be through

vehicletovehicle communication. The idea is that by means of intelligent communication between vehicles, a car approaching an intersection could warn crosstraffic even before other road users can see the car. For the time being, such a communications system still lies very much in the future ­ after all, it can only become a reality if all car makers work hand in hand. However, BMW Group vehicles are already fitted with all the technical prerequisites neces sary to implement this application today. In May 2009, BMW Group experts presented a pilot sys tem, in the form of the research project AMULETT ­ the German acronym for "Active mobile accident avoidance and mitigation of accidents through cooperative data acquisition and tracking technology" ­ which helps cars identify a pedestrian concealed by an obstacle early on and warns the driver accordingly. The system works with a transponder that pedestrians and bicyclists wear around their neck like an amulet and that communicates with cars. The BMW Group initiated this project because in 40 % of all fatalities involving pedestrians ­ primarily those involving children and teenagers ­ the driver only becomes aware of the pedestrian immediately before the collision. In the BMW Group's various driver training programmes, expert instructors show drivers how accidents can already be prevented today, simply by adjusting their driving style. This training is currently offered in 28 countries. 2008 saw a major increase in the number of new instructors, particu larly in Asia. Safe electric mobility Another field of research is the development of safety con cepts for vehicles with alternative drives. The BMW Group is researching the crash safety of highvoltage batteries and electronics components in a joint project called "safeeDrive" launched by the German carmakers to in crease their global lead in the field of vehicle safety and help establish standards for safe alternative drives. This is also important because widespread customer acceptance of electric or hydrogen cars will depend on the vehicles' safety level.

34

03.4

Traffic management and mobility research. The BMW Group is not only working on reducing the environmental impact of its products, but is also involved in numerous projects designed to reduce the environmental impact of road traffic in general. In Germany alone, traffic congestion and other traffic problems result in an additional consumption of roughly 12 billion litres of fuel per year. Further challenges also include cutting pollutant and noise emissions as well as reducing the number of accidents.

UN Global Compact

Initiatives for more efficient mobility The BMW Group's commitment to use traffic systems in a more efficient and environmentallycompatible man ner also includes measures designed to improve traffic management, with the following priorities: ­ Improving traffic flow, e. g. by introducing phased traffic signal systems ­ Reducing parking congestion, e. g. by implementing parking space management and routing systems ­ Improving the integration of individual mobility and local public transport ­ Increasing the use and integration of traffic data and the development of dynamic route guidance systems The major advantage of such measures is that they will benefit not only BMW and MINI drivers but will have a posi tive effect for all road users, including bus and truck traffic. The BMW Group's Traffic Technology and Management department is therefore involved in various research initia tives and demonstration projects that aim to develop and implement solutions to improve traffic management in urban centres. A cornerstone in these efforts is the socalled Inzell Initia tive, a collaboration between the BMW Group and the City of Munich, set up in 1995 with the goal of developing new traffic and mobility concepts for the Greater Munich Area. So far, the initiative has improved the park and ride struc tures and developed a bicycle traffic concept to strengthen the bicycle's position alongside motorised traffic. Major research projects, such as the most recent "arrive" project, are initiated and monitored under the banner of "Coopera tive Traffic Management". "arrive" was a cooperative project involving the BMW Group, the State of Bavaria, the City of Munich and the Technical University (TU) of Munich as well as other industry partners. Established in 2005, the project was finalised last year after various instruments to optimise traffic planning and man agement had been developed. In 2008, the BMW Group took a leading role in the project to promote the optimisa tion of phased traffic signal systems in Munich ­ a meas ure that will help cut fuel consumption by as much as 30 %. Further project achievements include improved traffic management to deal with disruptions and advanced public transport enquiry systems that can now be integrated into daily traffic management.

BMW Group traffic experts assist the City of Munich in optimising phased traffic signal systems.*

One of the most recent projects is a collaboration with the City of New York to record traffic data for the evaluation and improvement of traffic management. The project is one element in the city administration's efforts to make New York City the world's most sustainable metropolis. Research on future mobility The ifmo Institute of Mobility Research, a BMW Group research facility, works with experts from the worlds of science and business to analyse challenges for future indi vidual mobility across various sectors. The goal is to make a contribution to guaranteeing sus tainable mobility in the long term, taking into consideration a wide variety of challenges. Last year, ifmo completed a study on the impact of future trends in income, mobility costs, education and demog raphy on mobility behaviour in 2025. The study's main find ings: By 2025, the volume of traffic generated by private households will increase by 13 % from 2003 levels. Over the same period, there will be hardly any change in the so called modal split, or the allocation of traffic volume accord ing to the different means of transport. In addition, the broadly based scenario study "Future of Mobility" is currently being revised and updated to include the years up to 2030. It is scheduled for publication in late 2009. The study will explore the influence of many factors, including social, economic and technological aspects, on mobility. The latest edition will focus on potential changes in people's mobility behaviour as a result of society's in creasing awareness of environmental issues.
*

www.ifmo.de www.bmwgroup.com/mobility

www.inzell-initiative.de

picture: S. Oberländer

35

03.5

Recycling. In the early stages of vehicle development, engineers make decisions about materials and components which determine the recyclability of a car and its parts decades later.

Page 83

UN Global Compact

BMW Group Factbook Recycling

Life cycle focus In order to select the best environmental options, the BMW Group uses life cycle assessment to evaluate the environmental impact of vehicle components throughout the entire product life cycle ­ from raw materials produc tion through to recycling. This approach helps the com pany select the most favourable options early on and avoid those with a more negative ecological impact. The BMW Group factors in dwindling natural resources, customers' rising environmental awareness as well as increasingly strict legal requirements for the recycling and recyclability of vehicles. In the EU, for instance, new vehicles have to be 85 % recyclable and 95 % reusable according to an EU directive of December 2008. Proactive design The BMW Group continuously optimises vehicles' recycla bility by adopting a "design for recycling" approach. This includes, among other things, laying out vehicle compo nents in such a way that operating fluids like oil, fuel and coolants can be removed quickly and easily. The unit re sponsible for finding the best solutions for these matters is the BMW Group Recycling and Dismantling Centre in Munich where development vehicles are recycled and new recycling methods developed. The findings are made available to external recycling companies worldwide. In this way, these companies receive information about vehicle recycling today that they will be able to use a few years from now. However, life cycle assessment and design for recycling are only two aspects of the BMW Group's comprehensive strategy. Further areas for action include: ­ The expansion of the recovery centre network for end oflife vehicles beyond the EU, specifically to include countries such as China, Japan and Korea ­ Technical advice for external recycling partners with the goal of raising the percentage of recycled parts in end oflife vehicles ­ Increase in the utilisation of recycled materials, socalled recyclates, in automotive engineering ­ Absolute separation, disposal and recycling of waste and packaging materials at BMW Group service garages Recovery and recycling Carmakers in the EU established structures for costfree recovery and recycling of cars as of 1 January 2007. How ever, regulations still vary considerably across the world.

The Munichbased Recycling and Dismantling Centre promotes the de velopment of environmentallyfriendly and efficient recycling technologies.

www.bmwgroup.com/recycling www.bmw.com/recycling www.mini.com/recycling

From the technology perspective, the BMW Group is a pioneer in the field of vehicle recyclability. Back in May 2008, the company was the first carmaker to present a virtual materials balance sheet in accordance with ISO 22628 based on a comprehensive product data system ­ in this case for the new BMW 7 Series. In a largescale test using postshredder technology to dismantle and recycle 501 preseries cars, the BMW Group was able to demonstrate that its vehicles are in fact 85 % recyclable and 95 % reusable. Closing material cycles The BMW Group has closed material cycles by utilising recycled materials in vehicle production. These socalled recyclates currently account for up to 15 % of plastic com ponents in BMW Group vehicles. For the new 7 Series, the percentage of recyclates was increased by 15 % com pared to the previous model. Recycling in service Responsibility for the entire product life cycle also extends to old parts, repair and wear parts, used operating materials as well as sales packaging from service garages. These materials are collected and recycled by recycling partners thanks to countryspecific programmes. In 2008, such systems were also set up in Italy and the Czech Republic, bringing the number of countries participating so far to ten The goal is to guarantee disposal according to current BMW Group standards at dealership service garages in all markets worldwide.

36

03.6

Customer satisfaction. Customer satisfaction and loyalty is the key to business success: that success depends on how well a company knows and understands its customers' expectations ­ and translates them into reliable, highquality products.

The BMW Group addresses this by carefully noting the experiences and demands of existing and prospective customers and by applying these findings to improving products, services and offerings. As a global corporation, the BMW Group monitors customer satisfaction in Europe, Asia and Africa as well as the Americas. To this end, the company regularly carries out both its own mar ket research as well as studies developed in cooperation with other carmakers. The BMW Group derives targets and measures for all organisational units from these findings. This input influences not only the design of cus tomer satisfaction and dealership training programmes, but also the development of new vehicle models. Knowing and understanding the customer The company's priority is to meet the customer's demand for a superior experience in all dealings with the company. This is why the BMW Group's understanding of premium quality covers all aspects of the customer experience, namely the three pillars: product characteristics, vehicle re liability and customer service. Internal studies evaluate whether this premium claim is met, and is also reflected in the company's positioning in prestigious customer satis faction and quality rankings. In 2008, the BMW Group re ceived numerous accolades for maximum customer satis faction and top quality:

dealers worldwide a practical quality management pro gramme that supports the continuous improvement of customerrelated processes. The programme comprises training courses on attitude and conduct befitting the brand and customer relationship management as well as individual weakness analyses and consulting services. At present, 70 % of all dealerships worldwide take advan tage of the quality management programme. The BMW Group surveys its service and new car custom ers in more than 75 markets to find out how satisfied they are with the service they receive at their dealership. In 2008 alone, over three million customers worldwide were interviewed about their experiences and demands with re gard to retail and service. The BMW Group's Strategy Number ONE has launched a global initiative to expand its range of aftersales services. One of the initiative's objectives is to improve parts avail ability, a consequence of findings from customer satisfac tion studies. The company is currently setting up Dealer Metro Distribution Centres in 43 metropolitan cities, which will provide BMW and MINI dealers in their regions with the 10,000 to 15,000 most important spare parts within only a few hours. This programme will thus improve service for the owners of 14 million vehicles currently on the road.

BMW Group awards for customer satisfaction (as of March 2009)
www.jdpower.com www.dekra.com www.adac.de

Region
US

Position 1st BMW 5 Series and MINI Cooper, 3rd BMW brand 1st BMW 5 Series and X3, 2 nd BMW brand 1st BMW 5 Series and BMW brand 3 rd BMW brand 2 nd BMW 7 Series, 3 rd BMW 5 Series 1st BMW X3 2 nd BMW motorcycle brand

Automotive Performance, Execution and Layout Study (APEAL) 2008 Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) 2008

Germany France Japan

Dekra Report 2009
ADAC Breakdown Statistics 2008

Germany Germany
US

Motorcycle Competitive Information Study (MCIS) 2008

According to renowned market research institutes, cus tomer satisfaction is not exclusively based on reliability but to a large extent also on userfriendliness. The BMW Group is a pioneer in this field, with innovations such as the iDrive operating system which was presented in 2002 and has since been enhanced, based on comprehensive cus tomer studies. Many optimisations introduced for the first time with the new BMW 7 Series in late 2008 can be traced directly to customer feedback. Premium service for a vehicle's lifetime The BMW Group's retail partners are a vital point of cus tomer contact. The company therefore offers its 3,000

Satisfied customers are the best recommendation Recent studies show that the BMW Group has been able to improve customer satisfaction with product quality even further from the already high level of the past few years. 91 % of all MINI customers would definitely recommend their car (J.D. Powers Study IQS 2008). Customers are also highly satisfied with their dealerships: According to an in ternal customer study carried out in Germany, Japan and the US in 2008, 87 % of all customers would recommend their dealership.

04

37

Group-wide environmental protection
01 02 03 04 Sustainability management 05 Economics 17 Product responsibility 23 Group-wide environmental protection 37 04.1 Resource management and environmental protection 04.2 Energy consumption and emissions 42 04.3 Materials use and waste management 44 04.4 Water and wastewater 45 04.5 Efficient transport logistics 46 Employees 47 Society 59

40

05 06

Group-wide environmental protection ­ an impulse as natural as growing towards the sun.

38

04

Group-wide environmental protection

The BMW Group is committed to implementing activities to further resource conservation and environmental pro tection throughout the Group. To this end, the company continuously evaluates all environmentally relevant pro cesses and develops strategies and measures to help mini mise consumption of resources and environmental impact. These activities are not just based on the Group's own findings and priorities, but also take into consideration the
Materiality analysis ­ Group-wide environmental protection
Highly relevant for stakeholders

views of their stakeholders, which have been recorded in various surveys and then analysed. The following materiality analysis shows these topics on the vertical axis. The hori zontal axis represents the current importance of the re spective environmental issues for the BMW Group. A low priority may also indicate that the topic is already being successfully managed.

Emissions (e. g. CO2, wastewater, noise, VOC) Conservation of resources (e. g. materials, water) Energy consumption / alternative energies Environmental management Nature conservation at the sites Efficient transport logistics Waste management / hazardous substances

Highly relevant for the BMW Group

Issues of high relevance for stakeholders and the BMW Group, these are the focus of this Sustainable Value Report 2008. Issues of medium relevance for stakeholders and the BMW Group, these are described in less detail. Issues addressed by the BMW Group, but mentioned not at all or only in passing in this report.

the BMW Group appointed its first environmental officer. Today, a global network of environmental managers works constantly to lower environmental impact and resource consumption. Top priorities include the reduction of energy consumption and the use of alternative energies. The BMW plant in Spartanburg meets more than 60 % of its energy needs using methane from a nearby landfill.
Energy Centre at the BMW Plant Spartanburg (USA)

Back in 1973

39

Challenges

Climate change and rising energy prices demand efficient energy usage as well as the increased use of alternative energy sources Dwindling natural resources make efficient handling of these resources essential, and necessitate a search for substitutes and the use of recycled materials

Increasingly strict environmental regulations require the continuous reduction of the environmental impact attributed to wastewater, waste and productioninduced emissions, e. g. from solvents (VOC)

Key performance indicators (KPIs)

Energy consumed per vehicle produced
Page 86 et seqq.

Water consumption* per vehicle produced
in m 3 / vehicle
3.00 2.90 2.80 2.70 2.60

in MWh / vehicle
3.10 3.00 2.90 2.80 2.70

04 2.94

05 2.94

06 2.90

07 ** 2.78

08 2.80

04 3.03

05 2.60

06 2.56

07 ** 2.61

08 2.56

Waste for disposal *** per vehicle produced
in kg / vehicle
17.5 15.0 12.5 10.0 7.5

Volatile organic compounds (VOC) per vehicle produced
in kg / vehicle
2.75 2.50 2.25 2.00 1.75

Key performance indicator "Process wastewater per vehicle produced" page 92

07 16.17
*

08 14.84

04 2.26

05 2.07

06 2.04

07 ** 2.36

08 1.96

The water consumption includes the process water input for the production as well as the general water consumption, e. g. for sanitation facilities. Basis for data collection expanded in 2007 from ten to 17 locations. Until 2006: Munich, Dingolfing, Landshut, Regensburg, Leipzig, Steyr, Rosslyn, Spartanburg, Hams Hall, Oxford. Since 2007: Berlin (brake disc production), Eisenach, Swindon, Goodwood, Rayong (assembly), Chennai (assembly) and BMW Brilliance in Shenyang. *** "Waste for disposal per vehicle produced" became a performance indicator in 2007 and has been reported since then.
**

Achievements

Objectives

Further Group-wide energy savings of 1.1 million MWh of energy between 2007 and 2008 as well as a reduction in carbon emissions per vehicle produced from 0.84 tons in 2007 to 0.82 tons in 2008. Water-saving measures such as wastewater-free production in Steyr (Austria) and the new paint shop structure in Spartanburg (USA) led to a reduction in water consumption of 335,000 m3 of water and 68,000 m3 of process wastewater in 2008. The use of a new entry port in Brunswick (USA) has reduced the truck distance for over 10 % of the vehicles in the US market by almost 40 %.
*

Reducing the above-mentioned key performance indicators by 30 % from 2006 to 2012, i. e. by an average of 5 %* per year, in the global production network Evaluating and promoting the option of using wind and geothermal energy at various locations Developing a biodiversity parameter for the entire production network Increasing the percentage of low-emissions transport usage by developing new supply concepts
This target is subject to changes due to vehicle start of production, end of production or fluctuations in production volumes.

40

04.1

Resource management and environmental protection. The

BMW Group takes a systematic approach to improving resource efficiency throughout

its global production network: year by year, site by site. Today, no other carmaker can match the BMW Group's efficient use of resources ­ this was confirmed by a benchmark study carried out in 2008. By 2012, the resource consumption and emissions are to be reduced by another 30 % below the 2006 level ­ resulting in a noticeable benefit for the environment and the company's balance sheet.

Page 86 et seq.

UN Global Compact

In order to meet this goal, the BMW Group has introduced a systematic Groupwide environmental management system. This system includes the integration of environ mental aspects in the early stages of all major investment decisions, targeted implementation of the company's in ternal bestpractice approach, and ongoing monitoring of all relevant environmental parameters. All activities are based on the principle of preventive en vironmental protection and conservation of resources; this principle defines all corporate processes. In accordance with its Clean Production philosophy, the BMW Group designs its global production processes to minimise en vironmental impact ­ or, ideally, prevent it altogether. To this end, the BMW Group adheres to the UNEP's Inter national Declaration on Cleaner Production, which it signed in 2001. Back in 1993, the BMW Group established environ mental guidelines based on the ICC Charter for Sustain able Development and Agenda 21. Environmental management systems Environmental management systems have been estab lished at all production sites as well as in central planning departments. These systems are certified by external auditors in accordance with ISO 14001; the German and Austrian plants are additionally certified in accordance with the European environmental management standard EMAS. The latest additions to the list of ISO 14001 certi fied plants were Kaliningrad (Russia) in August 2008 and Chennai (India) in November 2008. The motorcycle com pany Husqvarna, acquired in October 2007, aims to receive certification for its production facilities by 2010. As part of the company's risk management activities, all BMW Group sites continuously monitor, analyse and evaluate the development of risk factors, taking into con sideration potential climate changes. 5 % cut in fuel consumption and emissions per year However, the BMW Group does not stop at applying con ventional environmental management systems. Three years ago, the company established a system that allows it to manage the resource consumption and emissions as rigorously as it does the use of financial resources. The objective is to reduce the consumption of energy and water, the emissions of solvents and carbon dioxide, as well as waste and process wastewater per vehicle produced to

www.bmwgroup.com/ cleanproduction www.bmwgroup.com/production www.bmwgroup.com/guidelines

30 % below 2006 levels by 2012. These are highly ambitious goals: every plant is required to improve efficiency by 5 % per year. However, these requirements may vary for indi vidual indicators due to vehicle start of production and end of production as well as fluctuations in production volumes, as became especially noticeable in 2008. The environmen tal efficiency index is applied to check whether the agreed reductions have been achieved across all key indicators. This process is supported by the environmental informa tion system "ecofacts", which is used to record all environ mentally relevant reporting figures at all locations world wide every month. From best-practices to reference system Comparing the environmental performance of the indi vidual locations helps identify examples of particularly effective implementation. Activities and improvements that have proven effective at one site are analysed and evaluated for their potential for implementation at further locations. Six competence centres (water, waste, energy, emissions, qualification and environmental manage ment system) staffed by environmental experts from the plants and from Corporate Environmental Protection dis cuss these bestpractice solutions and develop reference systems for future planning and process improvements. A new tool to assist plants in planning and revising their structures is the "Planner Portal for Occupational Safety, Fire Prevention and Environmental Protection". This offers information about reference systems and particularly successful bestpractices, worldwide and in real time. In addition, some 600 planners were trained in topics such as environmental legislation and reduction of solvent and water consumption between October 2006 and October 2008. This comprehensive training programme guarantees that planning experts have all the information they need to plan and implement future structures in an ecological and resourcefriendly manner right from the start. As a re sult, the BMW Group basically has its own builtin catalyst for improvement that continuously replenishes its momen tum ­ preempting foreseeable but inevitable future price increases for resources and emissions. Think ahead today. Benefit tomorrow. To identify efficiency potential early and prevent costly modifications later on, environmental aspects are taken into consideration in the initial stage of all investment decisions. In this way, any potential positive or negative im

www.unep.fr/scp/cp

www.iccwbo.org

41

The BMW Group is committed to nature conservation at all locations and has initiated various measures to improve biodiversity. One example: The RollsRoyce manufacturing plant at Goodwood, UK, has the largest "living roof" in Europe.

pact on the environment and on resource consumption is evaluated in the early phases of developmental and struc tural projects. If necessary, more ecologically favourable options are proposed. At the lightalloy foundry at the Landshut plant, for instance, the synthetic resin binders pre viously applied were replaced by lowodour, lowemissions mineral binders in late 2006. These new mineral binders will be used in the production of future products. This move reduces the proportion of organic elements in exhaust air by an impressive 98 %. The plant intends to convert the entire foundry to this inorganic binder system by 2010. Another example in this context is that a high rate of energy efficiency has now become a major purchasing criterion for new presses. The BMW Group's own Alpine conference hotel is cur rently being built according to sustainability criteria in Ammerwald (Austria). Materials used include woods from sustainable forestry as well as environmentallyfriendly paints and varnishes. Heating for the hotel will be provided by means of a pellet heater and a heat recovery facility. Wastewater will be purified at a biological wastewater treat ment facility. At all locations worldwide, the BMW Group also considers the impact of its activities on flora and fauna. In 2007/2008, ecological reviews were carried out on the grounds of the Leipzig plant, the proving ground in Aschheim and at Enduropark Hechlingen. The external en vironmental audit at Leipzig found that the plant's natural landscaping provides a habitat for a large variety of spe

cies. In the future, a Groupwide biodiversity index will en sure that the objective of maintaining or increasing biodi versity at all sites is met. First efficiency targets met The Groupwide environmental protection activities require both the company and its employees to make great ef forts. But these efforts are already paying off. In 2008 alone, the BMW Group reduced its energy consumption by over 650,000 MWh ­ thus reducing not only the environmental impact but also its energy bill by approximately 35 million euros. At the same time, improvements in other key parameters ­ water consumption, process wastewater and waste for disposal ­ have led to savings of 1.2 million euros. Compared to the previous year, the amount of waste for disposal, solvent emissions and water per vehicle produced declined significantly in 2008. Only energy consumption increased slightly, from 2.78 MWh per vehicle produced in 2007 to 2.80 MWh in 2008: this can be explained by the con siderable drop in automobile production volumes and the fact that resources are also consumed in productionfree periods. Nevertheless, the environmental efficiency index shows that overall resource efficiency improvements are in the agreed target range.

42

04.2

Energy consumption and emissions. At a time when resources are becoming scarcer and the consequences of their uncontrolled consumption can no longer be ignored, the BMW Group is stepping up its efforts to use materials and energy as efficiently as possible. The consumption of resources is recorded at Group level, managed according to efficiency criteria and thereby reduced to a minimum.

Page 88 et seqq.

www.bmwgroup.com/ cleanproduction

A top priority for Groupwide resource management is the company's energy consumption and the CO2 emissions thereby generated. The BMW Group uses systematic energy management in its efforts to reduce energy con sumption and carbon emissions to 30 % below 2006 levels by 2012. This achievement will not only improve the com pany's environmental impact assessment but ­ given the anticipated increase in energy prices over the medium term ­ also the company's profitability. Reduce, optimise, regenerate The strategic objectives set out in the Groupwide energy project launched in mid2006 are as follows: ­ systematic reduction of energy consumption, ­ highly efficient use of energy and energy regeneration whenever possible (e. g. by combined heat and power plants or rotating heat exchangers), ­ increase the proportion of regenerative energies. Representatives from all divisions work towards meeting these targets. In addition, the energy project team co operates with experts from central and plant technologies as well as Corporate Sustainability and Environmental Protection. Almost all sites have established their own working groups to identify potential energy savings. Thanks to the energy data management system intro duced in 2008 as part of the established environmental in formation system "ecofacts", the company can now record its energy consumption in even greater detail. At the plants, the savings target of 5 % annually refers to the con sumption per vehicle produced. At headquarters and in support areas, the reference value is energy consumption per square metre of space used. The calculation of the "carbon emissions" indicator is based on the energy con sumption and the mix of energies used, taking into con sideration both direct carbon emissions ­ arising from energy and heat generation, e. g. in the BMW Group's com bined heat and power plants ­ and indirect carbon emis sions at external energy providers. Fields of action ­ the key to optimising consumption The implementation of the BMW Group's energy strategy rests on four strategic pillars: Employees The company needs to get managers and employees on board to pursue energy efficiency targets and make their

own suggestions for potential savings. One example: At the 2008 Energy Days, 80,000 employees at the German locations and the Austrian engine plant in Steyr learned about responsible energy utilisation. After the event, employees submitted approximately 1,000 sug gestions as to how energy consumption could be re duced further. The best ideas were rewarded with a prize and implemented. Operations All operational processes have to be evaluated and opti mised in terms of their energy efficiency. A Groupwide project team has developed an action plan detailing how production sites and central areas can gradually reduce energy consumption. Major savings can be achieved by minimising energy consumption during productionfree periods, for instance. Planning and technologies How to achieve maximum energy efficiency is already taken into consideration in the planning phase of new buildings and facilities. But where does the most signifi cant potential lie hidden? In 2008, the company set up a pilot project to find answers to this question. The project team analysed the consumption structures and energy flows at facilities and in processes at the Munich BMW plant. The findings will gradually be incorporated at the other locations in the production network. Energy sources The longterm goal is to use more energy from renewable sources to meet energy requirements. In 2008, the per centage of renewable energy purchased from external providers stood at close to 15 %. The BMW Group is now evaluating the additional potential of using technologies such as photovoltaics, wind and geothermal energy, heat pumps and solar heat. Savings realised on schedule In the first two full project years (2007 and 2008), the energy project generated energy savings of approximately 1.1 mil lion MWh, the equivalent of the annual consumption of a German city with 170,000 inhabitants, as well as a reduction in CO2 emissions of about 500,000 tons and savings in energy costs of approximately 62 million euros. However, as a result of the substantial production cuts of more than 100,000 units in 2008 (­ 6.6 %), energy consump tion per vehicle produced increased slightly from 2007

43

--a The BMW Group is investing an other 12 million euros to increase capacity and efficiency of the methane project at BMW's plant in Spartanburg (USA). --b At the South African BMW plant, more than 70 solar panels heat the water for the paint shop. Savings: 569,000 kWh per year.

--a

--b

(2.78 MWh) to 2008 (2.80 MWh). This is why absolute energy consumption decreased disproportionately to the relative consumption per vehicle produced. Thanks to a change in the energy mix, carbon emissions were reduced by 2.4 % from 0.84 tons (2007) to 0.82 tons (2008). In 2008, the BMW Group did not need to make full use of the emissions allow ances allocated to the company by the European Union's Emissions Trading System. The improvement in the environment efficiency index (UEZ)* from the original 1.00 at the project launch in 2006 to now 0.89 (2008) proves that all in all, the economical and efficient consumption of resources is proceeding accord ing to plan. This efficiency leap can be attributed to a variety of individual programmes and initiatives that overall made a big difference. One striking example is the application of a new adhesives technology in the body shops at the plants in Spartanburg (USA), Munich, Regensburg, Leipzig and Rosslyn (South Africa) which has made heat drying in gas furnaces obso lete. Savings: about 40,000 MWh of energy and 19,000 MWh of natural gas per year. Another Groupwide initiative fo cuses on further improving the efficiency of the ventilation systems, which usually account for about 30 % of a plant's total energy needs. Furthermore, all locations have now optimised their light control systems and gradually reduced the number of compressed air levels. By modifying the settings of employee computers, energy consumption was reduced by another 27,000 MWh. Efficient energy use and regeneration Today, highefficiency combined heat and power plants with an efficiency of over 80 % generate both heat and power at the plants in Dingolfing, Landshut, Regensburg, Steyr, Oxford, Spartanburg as well as at the Munichbased Re search and Innovation Centre (FIZ). In the first half of 2009, the Leipzig plant also commissioned a CHP facility at an original investment of 3 million euros. At the Regensburg and Spartanburg plants, waste heat from the CHP facilities is used to operate thermally powered cooling plants for controlling the temperature in facilities and buildings. An other efficient measure is the regeneration of brake and heat energy at the engine laboratories of the Research and Innovation Centre. Overall, these savings amount to
*

4,500 MWh of energy per year and a reduction in carbon emissions of about 3,500 tons. Expansion of environmentally-friendly and regenerative energy sources The heating system at the Swindon plant has been con verted to run on lowemissions natural gas. At the US plant in Spartanburg, which has been supplied with methane from a nearby landfill since 2002, two new highefficiency gas turbines generate power and heat. These new turbines cover almost 30 % of the entire energy needs of the plant, compared with 14 % previously. While the new turbines double the total amount of energy generated from the same amount of methane, more than 60 % of the total energy needs at the Spartanburg plant are met by generating power and warm water from methane from the nearby land fill. From 2010 on, savings in the Spartanburg area will amount to about 92,000 tons of CO2 and about 7 million US

www.bmwusfactory.com www.bmwgroup.com/production www.bmwplant.co.za www.bmw-werk-leipzig.de

Environmental award for Shenyang

The Chinese plant received the 2008 Environmental Award for the best energy management in the region. dollars per year. At the Rosslyn plant in South Africa, most of the water needed for the paint shop is heated by more than 70 solar panels on the roof. The roof of BMW Welt in Munich also generates energy via 3,660 photovoltaic modules. At the Research and Innovation Centre, near surface ground water is used for cooling parts of the build ings. Annual savings: 10,000 MWh of energy and 6,300 tons of carbon emissions. The Landshut plant also uses ground water to cool the foundry. In addition, the Spartanburg and Leipzig plants are cur rently testing the possibility of using wind energy to gen erate power. The Dingolfing plant plans to heat with bio mass. In the future, the increased use of renewable energy sources will reduce the BMW Group's carbon emissions disproportionately to energy demand.

In 2006, the UEZ for parameters such as energy, CO2, water, wastewater, solvents and waste per vehicle produced was normalised at 1, totalled and divided by the number of resources. So, the initial value at the introduction of the UEZ in 2006 was 1.00. In 2008, the UEZ decreased to 0.89, in line with the agreed targets.

44

04.3

Materials use and waste management. Top priorities in the production process are to make efficient use of materials, to reduce waste and to minimise the amount of raw materials and supplies used in production. The BMW Group's environ mental experts not only optimise established processes but actually question them ­ sometimes abolishing them altogether. This is how sophisticated control of input trans lates into a decreasing output of waste and solvent emissions.

Page 91

With regard to the key performance indicators "Solvent emissions" and "Waste for disposal", i. e. waste that can neither be reused nor recycled, the BMW Group is also aiming for a steady reduction of 5 % per year and vehicle produced. Sustained reduction in the environmental impact of paint shops Traditionally, the environmental impact of painting the car body has been high. Accordingly, the BMW Group has been working hard on reducing the amount of solvents and chemicals required in the paint process for many years. All locations use lowsolvent waterbased paints as standard. At the Spartanburg plant, pretreatment and dipcoating systems were replaced by rotating procedures in 2008. This conversion has lowered the amount of water and chemicals required by about 10 %. In autumn 2008, the foundry at the Leipzig plant started production of the cylinder heads for the new BMW 7 Series, the first largescale series component to be produced using inorganic mineral binders instead of conventional odourintensive resin binders. The new procedure has reduced the percentage of organic elements in the exhaust air by 98 %. Achieving more using fewer supplies The automotive industry uses drawing oil at its press plants to facilitate the processing of sheet steel. In the course of this process, minute oil particles are dispersed into the air, which then require laborious filtering. As recently as 2005, 150 grams of oil were required to make a ton of sheet steel. Following largescale optimisation at the press plants, only a few body parts still require additional oiling. Today, oil consumption per ton of steel stands at only 40 grams. The Leipzig plant has even found a way to do without drawing oil altogether in the future. This innovation not only re duces investment in ventilation facilities by more than 50 %, but also cuts running expenses for ventilation and heating systems by 70 %. Since 2000, the BMW Group has also been promoting the reduction of surface protection for new cars by means of wax, adhesive films and protective sheaths. In 2008, some 82 % of new cars were delivered without surface protection (2007: 72 %). As a result, the last remaining facilities for wax coating were switched off in 2008, saving over 75 tons of preserving wax per year. Last but not least, the energy de

mand and the use of chemicals and solvents needed for applying, dewaxing and recycling the surface protection were significantly reduced. Avoid rather than recycle The BMW Group's waste management sets clear standards: the top priority is to avoid waste in the first place: 13.5 mil lion units of reusable packaging are used throughout the Group. The second option is reutilisation of materials. Only if those two options are not available, waste (e. g. paper, cardboard, scrap metal) is recycled or, the fourth option, used for energy recovery. This way, waste can at least be put to use as fuel for combined heat and power plants instead of fossil resources. Only if all these options have been exhausted, is the waste properly disposed of. The BMW Group records its waste flows using its own infor mation system. The disposal routes are evaluated by the company's environmental units in regular audits at the waste utilisation companies. In 2008, various plants introduced a number of programmes to reduce the amount of waste, focusing on waste for disposal. At the Leipzig plant, the metalliferous vacuum cleaner bags used in the body shop are no longer dis posed of but reused. Also in 2008, the Munich plant carried out a pilot project to optimise the application technology at the paint shop so that PVC waste from the underbody coating could be reduced by 80 % or about 100 tons per year. This approach has meanwhile been implemented at other plants such as Regensburg. Reduction targets exceeded Overall Groupwide reductions in solvent emissions amounted to 800 tons in 2008; emissions decreased by 17 % from the 2007 level to 1.96 kg per vehicle produced. The BMW Group also exceeded its targets ­ a reduction of 5 % ­ with regard to waste for disposal. By avoiding waste altogether, improving waste separation and sorting, waste for disposal was cut from 2007 to 2008 by 8 % to 14.84 kg per vehicle produced. A total of 21,365 tons of waste remained to be disposed of (2007: 24,923 tons).

www.bmwgroup.com/ cleanproduction

45

04.4

Water and wastewater. Even though it is not obvious when looking at the finished product, vehicle production requires substantial amounts of water. At the same time, water is a resource that is becoming more and more valuable worldwide. The BMW Group has recognised this major challenge and is constantly working to cut its water requirements. The company plans to avoid or reduce as much process waste water as possible or ­ in cases where this is not possible ­ to condition it properly.

Page 92

Thanks to the consistent application of its water manage ment system, the company plans to cut both the company's water consumption and wastewater per vehicle produced by an annual average of 5 %, amounting to total savings of 30 % by 2012 compared to the 2006 level. Besides the top priority of reducing water consumption and wastewater, it is also important to use as little potable water as possible. This is why the water quality required for each individual process is evaluated. The consumption of potable, ground, surface and rain water is recorded separately. The com pany's objective is to use potable water for production pur poses only if absolutely necessary for hygienic reasons, e. g. in circumstances where people are in direct contact with the water. Save water, close cycles As a rule, the company only withdraws as much water from ground water resources as can be replenished naturally. To compensate for the water withdrawn, unpolluted rain water is seeped via underground drainage ditches that guide rain water into the ground. Unlike feeding it into a wastewater treatment plant or a body of water, this measure helps to replenish ground water levels. Production waste water at the BMW Group is generally conditioned in a com panyowned facility before being discharged to a public wastewater treatment plant. Whenever possible, the company recycles wastewater and thus cuts both wastewater levels and fresh water demand. One example: In 2007, the Steyr plant introduced a system comprising specific filters and membrane technologies to condition all production wastewater and feed it back into the production process. This saves the plant up to 30 mil lion litres of water per year and renders a wastewater canal in production obsolete. For the last 15 years, the BMW Group has made use of hybrid cooling towers that require 98 % less water than conventional cooling towers. The BMW Group tests new cars for their water tightness in random samples. The respective facilities treat the water in the cycle, reuse it and thus keep water demand to a minimum. This solution was adopted as a standard by the BMW Group's global production network in early 2009. All new car wash facilities work with water recycling tech nologies that are based on biological procedures and have meanwhile replaced the previous chemical water prepar ation process.

Production at the BMW plant in Steyr, Austria, has completely closed the water cycle and is thus wastewaterfree.

The BMW plant in Rosslyn, South Africa, has commis sioned a new wastewater treatment plant (costs: 1.7 million rand or approximately 150,000 euros) that not only purifies the water, but also allows 40 % of the plant's wastewater to be fed back into the process ­ a quantity equal to about 2 million litres of water per year. Thanks to these large and small water saving measures, the BMW Group was able to cut water consumption by 8.3 %, from about 4,017,541 m3 in 2007 to 3,682,420 m3 in 2008. The reduction in water consumption per vehicle produced amounted to 1.9 %. Despite the significant drop in produc tion volumes in 2008 as well as the fact that resources are also consumed in productionfree periods, it was possible to cut water consumption per vehicle produced at least slightly. The Munich, Berlin, Leipzig and Goodwood sites have installed digital ground water models for additional water pollution control. These systems simulate the spread and flow of pollutants through the ground water. If pollution occurred, the BMW Group would be able to extract the pollutant using wells installed with special pumps. The simulation can also analyse the impact of ground water withdrawal, rainwater drainage or building structures ex tending into the ground water. Responsible ground water management also entails frequent level measurements and chemical analyses for monitoring purposes.

www.bmw-werk-steyr.at

46

04.5

dealership network, the BMW Group moves considerable quantities of materials, spare parts and vehicles every day. Transport capacity in 2008 amounted to a total of 15.8 billion ton kilometres, resulting in carbon emissions of 360,000 tons*. The BMW Group's logistics department is therefore developing efficient transport solutions to minimise the environ mental impact of the logistics process.

Efficient transport logistics. As a company with a worldwide production and

Page 93 et seq.

www.bmwgroup.com/logistics

Supplying materials to the global production network and delivering new vehicles to dealerships in about 140 coun tries are complex processes. Additional challenges arise from changes in the logistics chain: efficiency improve ments in the supply chain in turn require justintime de livery to production facilities. Most of these deliveries are made by truck. The entire transport of materials, spare parts and new cars is handled by external service providers. Finally, market fluctuations and shifts have an impact on the selection of the ideal mode of transport. Though the BMW Group's influence on the transport market is limited, the company has set itself ambitious goals in the field of environmentallyfriendly logistics, namely to increase the percentage of lowemissions carriers and capacity utilisa tion. Year by year, the target values are determined on the basis of a comprehensive parameter system and imple mentation is assessed accordingly. Key parameters are the percentage of ton kilometres covered by rail, road, sea and air as well as the percentage of rail transport used to dispatch vehicles from the plants. Choosing low-emissions transport In 2008, transportrelated carbon emissions per new car de creased from 0.32 tons to 0.28 tons. This can be attributed mainly to the utilisation of reducedemissions trucks. The BMW Group requires its logistics partners to use only vehicles that meet or exceed the Euro 4 standard. The company also managed to reduce the percentage of road transport from 16.1 % (2007) to 14.5 % (2008). The introduction of a new logistics train to transport materials and spare parts from the Bremen / Hanover region to BMW's Bavarian plants has alone reduced the number of truck trips by 22 a day. In the course of a full year, this innovation will cut truck kilometres by 3.4 million. And thanks to a new entry port in Brunswick, distances covered by truck in the US have been reduced significantly. At the same time, activities have been overshadowed by external conditions beyond the influence of the company, such as the decrease in rail deliveries by 4.5 % in 2008. This has primarily been due to a shift in sales to markets such as China, which requires longdistance marine transport and has thus resulted in a reduction in the percentage of rail traffic.

Employee mobility Staff commuting is a significant item on the BMW Group's logistics balance sheet. Since 1992, the BMW Group has studied how its employees travel to and from work at most of the German locations in an effort to minimise the environmental impact. To this end, various programmes have been launched, including the operation of plant buses (83 in Munich, 70 in Regensburg and 267 in Dingolfing each day), financial support for the use of public transport ("job ticket"), a traffic portal on the intranet as well as bicycle stands at all sites. As a consequence, the percentage of em ployees using public transport to get to work actually rose at the four largest German locations between 2007 and 2008. Last year's efforts to motivate employ ees to use plant buses and public transport led to a reduction in carbon emissions of 28,000 tons from the 2007 level. In 2008, the socalled "job ticket" was fur ther extended to include railway services. In addition, the company advertised lowemissions vehicles to its employees. At the location in Munich, the human re sources department and the Works Council signed a mobility agreement in 2005 that still serves as an ex ample for other sites. The BMW Group also plans to extend the "job ticket" offer to other locations.

Increased transport capacity utilisation The optimisation of transport capacity utilisation is a further lever. Having introduced a volumebased system for freight billing, the BMW Group offers its logistics partners world wide an incentive to plan their transport services more effi ciently. At the same time, the BMW Group pushes for the optimisation of reusable and disposable packaging in or der to leave as little freight capacity as possible unused. In 2008, the company achieved a much improved container load for the Chinese plant in Shenyang where 2,882 fewer maritime containers (40foot containers) were used than last year. Similar improvements were introduced with re gard to supplying the assembly plants in Russia, Thailand, Egypt, India, Indonesia and Malaysia, achieving another reduction in containers used of 753.

www.tremod.de

*

calculated according to Tremod

05

47

Employees
01 02 03 04 05 Sustainability management 05 Economics 17 Product responsibility 23 Groupwide environmental protection 37 Employees 47 05.1 Attractive employer 50 05.2 Perfect conditions for the number one success factor 05.3 Performance and reward 56 05.4 Shaping change flexibly 57 05.5 Cooperation and appreciation 58 Society 59

51

06

Thinking ahead means thinking things through: Work time is life time.

48

05

Employees

The BMW Group's success is first and foremost the success of its employees. This is why human resources aspects are always considered comprehensively. While standardised procedures have been established for many human resources issues, other topics still need to be integrated into or redesigned in line with corporate processes. The BMW Group's present areas of focus are shown below on the
Materiality analysis ­ Employees
Highly relevant for stakeholders

horizontal axis of the materiality analysis (relevant items only determine the current focus and do not make a statement about the topic's general priority). Issues which are of major importance to stakeholders have been determined through various surveys. They are depicted on the vertical axis.

Good working conditions / attractive employer Job security Occupational health and safety Health promotion Diversity and equal opportunities Work-life balance Demographic change Professional training and further education Performance-based remuneration

Highly relevant for the BMW Group

Issues of high relevance for stakeholders and the BMW Group, these are the focus of this Sustainable Value Report 2008. Issues of medium relevance for stakeholders and the BMW Group, these are described in less detail.

28,000 employees

have participated in free health checks since the project "Forum Health" was launched in 2006.
Forum Health at the Munich site

49

Challenges

To maintain the leading position as an attractive employer within an increasingly fierce competitive environment in order to be able to attract new, highly qualified employees for the BMW Group and retain them in the long term To maintain employees' performance by strengthening required competencies and by promoting employee

satisfaction, health, diversity and attractive development opportunities within the company To safeguard jobs also in times of economic crisis via various instruments such as measures to improve flexibility

Key performance indicators (KPIs)

BMW Group Employees at end of year *
Page 96 et seqq.
120,000 110,000 100,000 90,000 80,000

BMW Group Apprentices at 31 December
5,000 4,500 4,000 3,500 3,000

04

05

06

07

08

04 4,464

05 4,464

06 4,359

07 4,281

08 4,102

105,972 105,798 106,575 107,539 100,041
*

Figures exclude suspended contracts of employment, employees in the nonwork phases of preretirement parttime arrangements and low income earners.

Average days of further training per BMW Group employee
3.0 2.5 2.0 1.5 1.0

Accident frequency at BMW Group
per one million hours worked
4.5 4.0 3.5 3.0 2.5

04 2.4

05 1.8

06 1.8

07 1.9

08 1.6

04 3.8

05 3.3

06 3.3

07 3.1

08 2.7

Achievements

Objectives

The BMW Group was once again named one of the top three attractive employers. Bachelor programme "Speed Up" developed Work time model "Full-Time Select" implemented Pilot project "KRONOS" on the ergonomic evaluation of shift schedules completed (Berlin and Steyr plants) Project on providing aging staff with ergonomic workplaces completed (Dingolfing plant) Project on fighting personal over-indebtedness set up (Rosslyn plant) According to the most recent staff survey, 89.2 % of employees are very satisfied with working for the BMW Group.

Complementing training schedules with future technologies Setting up a systematic competence management Defining strategic fields of action and diversity targets Establishing occupational health and safety management systems at all BMW Group locations

50

05.1

Attractive employer. Companies are made by people. The more people are

encouraged to draw on their individual competencies, ideas and capabilities, the better the company performs as a whole. In turn, an efficient, stafforiented company offers attractive workplaces for motivated, talented employees.

Page 96

www.bmwgroup.com/responsibility

www.unglobalcompact.org www.ilo.org www.oecd.org www.iccwbo.org

"Employees are our number one success factor. This is why human resources decisions are among the key decisions we take." This statement is one of the basic principles stipulated in BMW Group's corporate Strategy Number ONE which are the foundation for the present advance ment of the company's human resources and social poli cies and thus of the entire field of personnel work. These policies are also based on other guidelines including the requirements detailed in the United Nations Global Com pact, the ILO, the OECD, the ICC Business Charter for Sustainable Development as well as the BMW Group's Joint Declaration of Human Rights and Working Conditions. 100,000 success factors The BMW Group has been in a strong position with re gard to the competition for specialists and executive staff for years. With a total of approximately 100,000 employees worldwide (previous year: 107,539), the BMW Group has the team it needs to stay on the road to success in the medium term. Nevertheless, the company will continue to look for and hire top professionals with specific qualifications for specific tasks. This is a major challenge, in particular in times of demographic change and an increasing lack of available professional staff. To be able to retain highly qualified staff in the long term, the BMW Group intends to further strengthen its position as an attractive employer. Promote performance, show appreciation But what characterises an attractive employer? A com pany's ability to attract and retain employees is revealed in many different aspects that can be summarised in four main points: Guaranteeing performance The BMW Group promotes the expansion of skills as well as staff's mental and physical productivity. It supports a diversity of cultures and ways of life at the company. This includes a variety of working models that help employees achieve a worklife balance. Attractive, performance-based remuneration Competitive, performancebased pay as well as numerous benefits are the reward for employees' commitment.

Reliable future prospects The flexibility of both employees and the company is a key prerequisite for safeguarding employment in the long term. Show appreciation Thanks to the fruitful cooperation of employees' repre sentatives and the management as well as the opportunity to actively shape the company by means of the change management programme, the BMW Group offers staff great room for ideas. The company encourages the motiv ational management of staff and thus guarantees great employee satisfaction. The BMW Group provides the environment for employees to deliver exceptional performance on behalf of the com pany ­ to set the stage for lasting success.

www.investorsinpeople.co.uk

In 2008

www.bmwgroup.com/guidelines

the location Goodwood was granted the "Investor in People" status that honours employers who strategically promote, support and train their employees.

UN Global Compact

Restructuring the human resources organisation Based on the new targets established in the corporate Strategy Number ONE, the BMW Group human resourc es organisation was restructured in 2009. New challenges for human resources development have also arisen from the global sales and economic crisis as well as from the subsequent need to reduce costs in all areas of the com pany. To master these challenges, the BMW Group human resources sees itself today mainly as an innovative, efficient and effective network that assumes a global role in struc turing and designing processes. Just as in other divisions, target achievement is supported by the companywide use of the Balanced Scorecard. Following the structural and strategic realignment, the BMW Group human resources as a business and service partner sets out to make a contribution to meeting the ambitious targets established in Strategy Number ONE. It already has the crucial success factors, namely 100,000 of them.

51

05.2

Perfect conditions for the number one success factor

Page 96 et seqq.

Guarantee productivity, support peak performance Success, as automotive pioneer Henry Ford once said, "is to have exactly the skills demanded at the moment." That basically holds true to this day. However, Ford's success formula has to be expanded by several key questions: What exactly are these skills? Which competencies are not only in demand today but will continue to be in demand in the near or far future? And how does one guarantee that these skills are further developed and applied at the right place and time? In other words: How can a company maintain and expand its staff's productivity? These are the questions that drive the BMW Group's human resources strategy. Answering these questions will help the BMW Group find the right employees, retain them and offer them the perfect environment to deliver peak performance. With regard to the employees' competencies, three core fields of action have been defined: ­ Identify the skills needed and develop the corresponding human resources planning activities ­ Develop existing competencies further ­ Recruit and develop new competencies The right people at the right place Just as customer requirements, market demands, tech nologies and corporate strategies change, so does the need for certain competencies in the company. One ex ample: The development of electric mobility solutions and hybrid drives has stepped up the demand for engineers and technicians with experience and expertise in these fields. In a first step, the BMW Group's personnel planning deter mines the future demand for specific competencies in line with certain strategic focus areas. In a second step, existing staff is scrutinised with regard to employees who could provide these competencies thanks to acquired skills or completed training courses. The goals are, firstly, to provide employees with a longterm employment perspective and, secondly, to cover the company's need for certain competencies in the most time and costefficient manner.

www.trendence.com www.universumeurope.com

Attracting tomorrow's high-performers The company does not have all the competencies at its disposal today which will be in demand tomorrow. Although the headcount is likely to remain more or less unchanged in the medium term, the BMW Group will continue to hire a limited number of specialists and will cover competencies at the company by means of junior training programmes. Human resources marketing strategically targets university graduates and professionals in fields in which new talent is needed right now as well as in the short and medium term: This applies primarily to electrical and information engi neering, electronics, IT, mechatronics as well as industrial and mechanical engineering. As a global corporation, the BMW Group is increasingly shifting the focus of its human resources marketing towards international target groups. In the competition for specialists and executive staff, the BMW Group benefits from the company's excellent repu tation among students and university graduates. In 2008 and 2009 young academics in the fields of economic and engineering science named the BMW Group one of the top three employers, both in Trendence's "German Graduates Barometer" and the European "Universum Student Survey". Cross-functional training For the BMW Group, professional training means much more than providing young people with perfect professional qualifications. The company's 4,102 apprentices in 23 pro fessions training with the BMW Group at the end of 2008 received numerous opportunities in Germany and abroad to complement their current professional skills with further qualifications. Options include, for example, the training programme Dynamic Drive, a feedback instrument set up in 2007 to promote apprentices' team spirit and social skills. AQua, a qualification programme for apprentices at German dealerships and service partners, prepares future mechanics for the increasing demands in the areas of technology and customer. While still in training, they can experience firsthand the dynamics and laws of the busi ness world in their own junior companies. A main task of the BMW Group's apprenticeship unit is to align apprenticeship programmes with the new technological

www.bmwgroup.com/career

52

--a The new "BMW Training Center Shanghai" opened in May 2009. --b The new Training Center in Shanghai offers classes for em ployees to help them further improve cus tomer satisfaction. --a --b

requirements, such as those in the field of electric mobility. One example: In 2008, the BMW Group incorporated a new training module called "Hybrid Technology" into the pro fessional training programme for vehicle mechatronic tech nicians. Attract and convince graduates In 2007 / 2008, the BMW Group employed a total of 8,844 in terns, lastsemester students and PhD candidates. What is new is that the BMW Group now also offers parttime and split internships as well as further models. In addition, the BMW Group is implementing the principles of fair employment conditions and opportunities for interns as stipulated in the initiative "Fair Company". The BMW Group's academic young talent programmes are continuously adapted to meet changing internal and external requirements. The company reacted to the new bachelor and master structure at the universities by intro ducing the two programmes "Speed Up" and "Fastlane". Education and passion for automotive mobility Many students do not wait for graduation and already get in contact with the BMW Group whilst still at university. Thanks to the intensive, longterm cooperation with vari ous universities and colleges, the company does not only guarantee a continuous exchange between research and practical application as well as a more practical university training, but also attracts motivated, excellent students early on as potential BMW Group employees. It is also im portant to make sure that, during university studies, stu dents acquire the skills the company considers important in the long term. Good examples for this kind of cooper ation are CAR@TUM (joint project of the BMW Group and the TU Munich) as well as the collaboration with the Inter national Center for Automotive Research at Clemson Uni versity in South Carolina (USA). In addition to these direct collaborations, the BMW Group representatives work at and for universities. At the com pany's Bavarian locations, plant and production managers are active in the respective University Councils. On the European level, the BMW Group is the employers' repre sentative on the "European Quality Assurance Register", a body that intends to improve the quality of academic training at European universities.

To counter the impending lack of specialists, the BMW Group raises passion for technology and automotive mo bility in many areas of the educational system. Paying interest on brain capital 100,000 BMW Group employees ­ this means 100,000 op portunities to develop manifold ideas and competencies. This is what the BMW Group does by offering employees demanddriven further education programmes. The goal is to support all employees in the endeavour of lifelong learning and expanding their skills. Besides professional competencies, the BMW Group encourages staff to im prove their methodological and social skills, such as leader ship qualities. In 2008, for example, numerous locations offered executives classes in "Leadership and Behaviour", "Labour Law for Executives" and "Healthy Leadership". In light of the challenging economic climate, last year's further training activities were concentrated upon select target groups and key topics. At 154 million euros, the BMW Group's training and education expenditure was down 14.9 % yearonyear. On average, BMW employees took 1.6 days of training last year (previous year: 1.9 days). The BMW Group places particular emphasis on improving the integration of learning and working environments. "Drive", the 18 to 24month programme for young profes sionals with up to three years of work experience, is the BMW Group's way to help young professionals gain a foot hold in team and work processes. The "Drive" programme currently has 100 participants. In 2008 / 2009, the BMW Group set up new training centres in the two key markets China and the US, tailored specifically to the needs of sales staff. In China, the company now operates two own training centres as well as four training units at universities. With a total capacity of 50,000 training days per year, the BMW Group will help employees in the Far East improve their performance ­ a major prerequisite for increasing customer satisfaction. The basic training for technical staff in China, introduced last year, was expanded further. The programme concept and its modules are available to all markets worldwide. In Germany, for example, the programme complements the school training that BMW Group apprentices receive.

www.bmwgroup.com/career

www.clemson.edu/centers-institute/ cu-icar

www.bmwgroup.com/science

www.eqar.eu

53

--c Workplaces in transmission mounting were redesigned to make it possible for blind em ployees to work there. --d Women in technical profes sions: Sabine Häfelein is a master automotive technician.

--c

--d

UN Global Compact

Versatile competencies for a versatile company Today the BMW Group is active in more than 140 markets worldwide. However, it is only possible to tap into the full potential of international business by understanding the various customer groups, cultures and requirements. Ideally, this task is handled by employees who have a deep understanding of this diversity thanks to their own biog raphies, life situations, experiences and interests. At the same time, it is crucial to retain staff competencies for the company throughout employees' different stages of life. This is why the BMW Group has established a wide range of possibilities, such as various assignment and work time models, that allow employees bound by different family circumstances or conditions (e. g. disabilities or age related restrictions) to fully develop their performance po tential. Because their versatile experiences and skills are much too valuable to lose. This claim is derived from the Strategy Number ONE and is promoted throughout the company under the label of "Diversity Management". Cur rent priorities in Germany are the promotion and longterm retention of female staff as well as worklife balance. Attracting female staff Women are clearly underrepresented among apprentices (23 %), interns, lastsemester students and PhD candidates (27.9 %) as well as in managerial positions (7.8 % at BMW AG). However, the share of female managers at BMW AG has risen 66 % over the last six years. Overall, female employees make up 13.2 % of BMW AG's workforce today. The com pany intends to increase the share of female staff and to support them on their way from apprenticeship to executive positions. With "Technology Camps for Girls" (in cooperation with the Educational Institute of Industry and Commerce in Ba varia) and "Girls' Days" (in 2008: 800 participants at the Ger man locations), the BMW Group tries to awaken female teenagers' interest in technical professions. In addition, the company strategically supports women, e. g. by means of various mentoring programmes and internal networks.

Working time and family time Many couples in their mid20s to mid40s ­ who are also right in the decisive phase of setting the course for their careers ­ ask themselves how to manage both a family and work. An increasingly large group of people takes care of elderly or sick relatives, a timeintensive task that is difficult to adapt to the requirements of working in a regular job. This is why the BMW Group offers employees a wide range of flexible work time models which help people achieve a worklife balance. These models include tele working, parttime work and sabbaticals. Since 2008, long term permanent staff at BMW AG and Plant Steyr can take an additional unpaid leave of absence of up to 20 days a year. In the first year, 780 BMW AG employees took advan tage of this new work time model FullTime Select. The offering also explicitly addresses male employees whose opportunities to take on the responsibilities of childcare have improved dramatically, thanks to the options of paren tal or family leave available in Germany. For further infor mation on childcare offerings and family services, please refer to www.bmwgroup.com/career. Intercultural diversity at the top The BMW Group promotes the diversity of its staff at all locations worldwide. One of the goals is to raise awareness among executives for diversity issues and support for local junior managers.

www.bmwgroup.com/career

91 % of all executives

in South Africa are locals, in Great Britain the share is 90 % and at US plant Spartanburg 81 %.

www.girls-day.de

In the future, the BMW Group intends to expand its diver sity programmes and focus more strongly on aspects such as cultural diversity. Another important step will be to es tablish the organisational framework for Diversity Manage ment by incorporating it into the corporate target system and by assigning responsibilities.

54

Healthy exercise at the workplace: a workout that strengthens the back muscles, carried out by assembly workers.

Page 99

Stay healthy, be motivated at work Large companies also reflect social trends. And today's society, at least in Western Europe, can be described by a few main demographic trends: The average age is rising. People have to work longer. It is becoming harder to find topnotch professionals. And demand for certain compe tencies is on the rise. A large company that does not want to be steamrolled by certain trends but wants to benefit from them, needs to guarantee two things: It has to keep its staff healthy and productive and has to make it possible for everyone to continue to contributing to the company's success, even in the case of ­ maybe agerelated ­ performance restric tions. The following fields of action arise from these assumptions: ­ Guaranteeing workplace safety and ergonomics to keep staff healthy and to minimise the risk of occupational accidents ­ Integrating staff with performance restrictions ­ Supporting staff in leading a healthy and balanced life style

Occupational safety in line with international standards A basic prerequisite for keeping healthy is a safe work environment. At present, the BMW Group has health and occupational safety management systems in line with OHRIS and OHSAS requirements at 12 out of 24 locations as well as corresponding systems complying with national standards at four additional locations. This means that the workplaces of approximately 80 % of all employees are certified according to management systems. Additional locations are to follow by 2010. A first measurable result of the consistent implementation of these management systems: The accident frequency decreased from 3.1 (2007) to 2.7 accidents per one million hours worked. The industry average stands at 4.0 accidents per one million hours worked.

55

-- a/b "Financial Wellness Program": Customised consulting on financial matters in South Africa

--a

--b

www.bmw.co.za

Adequate work environment for older staff What are the implications of an aging production workforce? How can manual labour be organised in a more ergonomic and ageappropriate manner? These questions were used as the basis for a pilot project at the Dingolfing plant be tween October 2007 and September 2008. At a production line for rearaxle transmission assembly, the age structure forecast for 2017 is implemented already today. The result: thanks to "Work System 2017", an older team of employees is just as efficient as production areas with considerably younger workers. Key measures are the "strainoptimised staff rotation" as well as the development of age and healthappropriate shift models based on a requirements / capacity analysis. Joint responsibility for health issues Employees can make a significant contribution to staying healthy by leading a healthy lifestyle and undergoing preventive checkups. The BMW Group supports its staff with a variety of customised offerings for specific groups of employees and different healthcare aspects. This in cludes a free health checkup at "Forum Health", nutrition campaigns and the fitness concept "MoveUp". In 2008, the company cooperated with the Technical University (TU) of Munich to run a "Personal Health Manager" pilot project targeted at employees at the Munich plant who had never done any sports and showed at least two risk factors for metabolic syndrome. The result: Almost all of the 100 par ticipants improved their risk profile, some of them signifi cantly. The BMW Group also continued various programmes on addiction and disease prevention, e. g. "Dealing with Alcohol", "Smokefree" as well as flu shots. Together with the health insurer BKK BMW, the Munich plant organised classes on breast cancer early diagnosis in 2008. There were also colon cancer preventive checks at all German plants in 2009. These comprehensive programmes help the BMW Group raise awareness among employees and enhance the staff's personal accountability. Obviously, it is up to the employees themselves to take advantage of such offers.

Financial health The specific concepts and activities in the area of health promotion depend to a certain extent on the requirements at the locations, which might differ from region to region. A good example in this context is the "Financial Wellness Program" in South Africa. Studies show that many workers in South Africa have to deal with a mountain of debt, which impairs their physical and psychological wellbeing as well as their performance at work. Many people are unable to handle this pressure: they arrive at work late or stop coming altogether or else they are subject to the courtordered wage garnishments. The most com mon reasons for massive overindebtedness are un expected costs, failure to plan for the long term, a lack of financial knowledge and family reasons, as well as high interest rates and the increasing number of unre liable lenders in the country. As a prevention and aid package, the BMW Group launched the "Financial Wellness Program" two years ago. In a first step, a team of three social workers with sound knowledge of the legal and economic environment determines the debt level and a person's "financial wellness profile". In a second step, they develop a customised strategy to help the employee escape the debt trap. Between April 2007 and July 2008, a total of 1,130 employees were issued a confi dential credit report on their financial status.

56

05.3

Performance and reward. The BMW Group can only be successful if employees
apply all their productivity and knowledge to making corporate success happen. In turn, the company rewards employees' performance with fair, transparent, competitive and attractive remuneration.

Page 100

The BMW Group counts on intrinsically motivated staff, i. e. high performers for whom the commitment to their work and the willingness to perform are a matter of course. In this understanding, the annual income is not the prime in centive but the expression of appreciation for services ren dered. The design of the BMW Group's remuneration sys tem is based on fairly rewarding both an individual's performance and the performance of the entire team. This is a crucial factor today as, within an increasingly fierce competitive environment, the BMW Group wants to im prove efficiency not only by reducing costs but primarily by becoming more efficient. Participation in the company's success The BMW Group implements its philosophy of perform ance and reward consistently in all markets and across all hierarchical levels. Employees, executives and the Board of Management all participate in the company's success according to the same system. The performancebased remuneration element increases with the employee's hier archical position. This is why, due to the dramatically de creased operating result, in 2009 a payscale employee will earn about 10 % less while department heads will receive about onethird less and Board Members about 40 % less than last year. Comparability and transparency The remuneration paid by the BMW Group is in the upper third of the relevant labour market and thus at a very at tractive competitive level compared with other companies. In 2008, the BMW Group's remuneration system was revised to guarantee fairness and balance. Following the performanceandreward principle, there are natural differences in income for individual employees. Neverthe less, the income of all members in a salary bracket de velops rather similarly and the BMW Group can prevent the gap between lower and higher salary groups from widening. The BMW Group also guarantees consistency and trans parency among locations and plants. Each employee's remuneration package worldwide is comprised of com parable components. Countryspecific differences (e. g. with regard to health insurance or retirement benefits) are taken into consideration so as to allow the BMW Group to offer an attractive overall package in each region. The salary components in detail:

1. Fixed salary Each employee receives a fixed remuneration of 12 monthly salaries. The fixed salary is complemented with further elements according to local conditions and is assessed and adapted once a year. There is no difference in remu neration between male and female employees. 2. Company bonus Corporate success is largely the result of successful team work. This is why BMW AG complements the fixed re muneration with participation in the corporate result. The amount of the company bonuses paid out is based on the overall result of the company. In 2008, for instance, the total remuneration for BMW AG's payscale employees amounted to 15.5 monthly salaries. 3. Individual bonus Besides the teams' overall achievement, the BMW Group also rewards employees' individual performance via certain salary components. The amount depends on the result of the evaluation carried out by their superior. 4. Retirement benefits In times of demographic change, the company pension plan increasingly gains in importance. The BMW Group offers its staff attractive pension models that are tailored to the specific market's structures. 5. Additional benefits Depending on local requirements or a person's classifica tion, the BMW Group offers employees additional benefits such as favourable conditions on vehicles, a collective accident insurance for executives in Germany or additional insurance coverage for health services in India and China.

57

05.4

Shaping change flexibly. The business of individual mobility is changing. To emerge from this period of change even stronger than before, companies and their staff have to be one thing above all others: adaptable.

Page 100

For the BMW Group, adaptability means first of all to con tinue to offer staff reliable future perspectives also in difficult times. After all, highly qualified and committed employees are the crucial competitive advantage of tomorrow. On the other hand, a company needs to be able to react to economic downswings, fluctuations in sales and cost pressure. This can only be done if both the company and its employees adapt flexibly to any new situation. This is why the BMW Group has cooperated with staff representatives to develop a variety of measures that allow for maximum flexibility with regard to time, place and as signment ­ which makes them the perfect means to guar antee reliable job security in the future. Thanks to these models, the company was able to adapt production to a global decrease in demand early on in 2008 without having to make people redundant. Temporal flexibility An important element is the "BMW time account", which gives employees the possibility to save or overdraw up to 300 hours a year. At the same time, it gives the company more leeway in case of market fluctuations. In addition, many BMW Group employees take advantage of flexible work time models such as parttime work or Full Time Select (see Chapter 05.2). The partial retirement pro gramme that helps people master the transition from work to retirement is taken advantage of by 85 % to 90 % of all employees in the respective age group. In 2008 alone, the BMW Group concluded approximately 1,250 new partial retirement contracts with employees. However, starting in 2010, the additional amount of benefits presently paid by the Federal Employment Office will be omitted. The BMW Group will nevertheless continue its partial retirement programme and adapt the existing company agreement based on the collective agreement "Flexible Transition into Retirement". In today's very difficult economic climate, in which the usual flexibility activities are not sufficient, BMW AG also applies the legal means of shorttime work to safeguard employment. This happened in the first half year of 2009 when the Board of Management and the Works Council agreed to counter the volume adjustments in production with shorttime work at several German plants with the goal of reducing costs as necessary while safeguarding employment.

A specifically established shuttle bus brings employees from Regensburg to Leipzig.

In motion ­ geographically and professionally In 2008, BMW took advantage of natural fluctuation and mutual termination agreements to reduce the headcount by 7,498 to approximately 100,000 employees. This is the workforce with which the BMW Group wants to develop new tasks, technologies and markets. In this endeavour, employees are also required to show local flexibility and mobility, aspects which have long been crucial competitive advantages of the BMW Group's production network. A temporary change in the place of assignment is an established, wellproven approach that does not only strengthen the exchange of knowledge but also makes a significant contribution to safeguarding jobs. New tasks and technologies also require different or new skills. To cover certain deficiencies, an increasing number of employees need to undergo further professional train ing. For employees, this means remaining "employable".

200 Regensburg staff

are supporting the Leipzig plant in 2009 to reestablish two-shift operations.

For the company it means covering required skills and ex pertise internally, through experienced staff (see Chapter 05.2). In this context, employees are transferred to other areas, either temporarily or permanently. In 2008, over 6,000 employees found new longterm assignments within the company this way.

58

05.5

Cooperation and appreciation. In the same manner in which the BMW Group
expects its staff to show full commitment to value creation, the company shows staff great appreciation.

Page 100

UN Global Compact

This aspect is most visible in the vast range of possibilities for staff to become actively involved in shaping the com pany ­ via codetermination and the improvement manage ment system. However, appreciation is also obvious in the fruitful cooperation of the two parties, in the new, be haviourdriven leadership style and the regular staff surveys, a systematic way for the BMW Group to obtain employees' feedback. Co-determine The BMW Group implements the institutionalised co determination system worldwide according to the various countries' respective regulations. At all BMW AG plants and locations, elected members of the Works Council represent staff in codetermination issues. They negotiate with the management about, for example, company agree ments such as those dealing with work time models, ac company the company's development from an employee's point of view and are in constant ­ and critical ­ dialogue with the company's management. The Works Council and Board of Management attach great importance to working cooperatively. In an international context, employees are represented by the Euro Works Council (Great Britain, Austria and Ger many). The locations in Spartanburg and Rosslyn as well as the BMW Group's sales and production joint venture, BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. (China), have local works councils to handle the respective tasks. Active participation The BMW Group's innovation and improvement culture gives staff numerous opportunities to have a share in shaping the company by providing ideas and suggestions. The improvement management system "imotion" is a tool that helps staff implement suggestions for improvement. However, in 2008 the number of suggestions handed in declined significantly. Nevertheless, 60 % of all processed ideas were implemented and rewarded accordingly. In 2009, the BMW Group set up an international pilot project on idea management in the marketing division, "improVe international", the next step in the company's effort to integrate improvement initiatives on a global level.

Staff-oriented leadership Last year, the BMW Group developed its understanding of leadership further and included it in the leadership model of the new "House of Management". This forms the basis for manager evaluations. The most important change: Today's executives are now more than ever expected not only to deliver excellent results but also to set a good ex ample by leadership. Both the achievement of great results and the path executives take to get there together with their teams is crucial. Co-evaluate But how are all these initiatives evaluated by employees? Do they actually consider the BMW Group an attractive employer? And which needs for improvement do employees see? Questions like these are systematically addressed every two years in the BMW Group staff survey. 74,794 employees from 41 countries ­ or 81.7 % of the entire workforce ­ par ticipated in the most recent survey, carried out between March and November 2007. 89.2 % of those surveyed were very satisfied with working for the BMW Group ­ an excel lent result compared to others in the industry, though 3 % down from the satisfaction index of the 2005 staff survey. Participants saw the main need for action in the fields of work processes, learning and development opportunities as well as the leadership culture ­ an incitement seized by the BMW Group and included in the new "House of Management". As the company is currently implementing Strategy Number ONE, the key questions of the staff survey are to be aligned with the new strategy as well. Therefore, the staff survey 2010 is to be accompanied by the "High Performance Organization Index" that evaluates the em

www.hewittassociates.com

BMW Group

is the only automotive manufacturer in the "Hewitt Top Companies for Leaders Europe" study 2007.

ployees' and the company's productivity. This is why the staff survey scheduled for 2009 has been postponed by one year.

06

59

Society
01 02 03 04 05 06 Sustainability management 05 Economics 17 Product responsibility 23 Groupwide environmental protection 37 Employees 47 Society 59 06.1 General concept and priorities 62 06.2 Road safety projects 63 06.3 Education and intercultural understanding 06.4 Commitment to fighting HIV / Aids 65 06.5 Worldwide cultural commitment 66 06.6 Foundations 67

64

Stronger together: Accepting and promoting social responsibility.

60

06

Society

The BMW Group considers itself a reliable partner for society. This means tackling social challenges and issues of particular concern to the communities and regions where the company's sites are located. Regular stake holder consultation identifies the issues and what needs to be done. The materiality analysis below reflects their

relevance from both the stakeholders' and the BMW Group's perspective. The following chapter describes the strategies and programmes related to these topics. To begin with, the most important challenges and perform ance indicators are listed on the next page, alongside objectives and achievements.

Materiality analysis ­ Society
Highly relevant for stakeholders

Cultural involvement

Education and intercultural understanding Local commitment Commitment to fighting HIV / Aids

Foundations

Road safety

Highly relevant for the BMW Group

Issues of high relevance for stakeholders and the BMW Group, these are the focus of this Sustainable Value Report 2008. Issues of medium relevance for stakeholders and the BMW Group, these are described in less detail.

Global support
for a multitude of social projects: One focus of the BMW Group's activities is on educational activities for children and teenagers.
Junior Campus of the BMW Welt in Munich

61

Challenges

Communities need more and more local commitment, but priorities vary from country to country: activities in India focus on education, but in South Africa HIV / Aids is the pressing issue The complexity of mobility issues and the spread of megacities demand a new approach to road safety programmes

Demographic change and global migration are creating new requirements and conditions that must be taken into account.

Key performance indicators (KPIs)

BMW Group donations worldwide in 2008*
Page 102

in %, total sum: 5,706,696 euros
Sports Environment / Sustainability Politics Culture

Society / Community Science
Society / Community

45 32 10 10 2 1

Culture Politics Environment / Sustainability Sports

Science

*

The sum indicated here does not include either causerelated marketing or sponsorship and does not contain the projects and activities carried out in the context of the company's social and cultural commitment.

Achievements

Objectives

Reconstruction of settlements for tsunami victims in India completed in 2009 Emergency financial aid for those affected by the bush fires in Australia and the victims of the 2009 earthquake in Italy Road safety training for a total of 3,200 children throughout China in 2008 Presentation of the AMULETT research project in Munich in May 2009 The publication "Doing Business in a Multicultural World", issued by the UN Global Compact and the UN Alliance of Civilizations, cited the BMW Group Award for Intercultural Commitment and the corresponding course material as a best-practice example. Elements of the BMW HIV / Aids programme also implemented by several South African dealerships Dedication of the BMW LoveLife youth centre for HIV / Aids prevention in Knysna, South Africa, in 2007

Offering Junior Campus as a mobile out-of-classroom learning experience throughout Germany Using the BMW Group's core competences to contribute to the development of communities at international sites Implementing the new concept of the BMW Group Award for Intercultural Commitment Expanding the foundations' project work and transferring the gained experience to further areas in need of social action

62

06.1

General concept and priorities. For the BMW Group, a broad social com
mitment is an integral part of how it defines itself as a company.

www.bmwgroup.com/ socialcommitment

The BMW Group feels both the desire and the obligation to be a reliable partner for society. As such, the BMW Group is particularly committed to those issues that are impor tant to the company and the regions where it operates. It concentrates on projects and concepts where the com pany's core competences can help realise a specific and measurable improvement. The BMW Group focuses on finding longterm solutions to global challenges which can be transferred to other parts of the world and which help people help themselves, thereby achieving a substantial and lasting effect. The BMW Group is involved in a multitude of initiatives to promote maximum road safety. The company is obviously committed not only to the safety of its own customers but to that of all road users. Education initiatives are a fur ther focus of its social commitment. With these, the BMW Group helps to impart skills which are essential to the company itself and to society at large. The BMW Group is also committed to the promotion of research and teaching, especially in technical subjects. It has, for instance, facilitated the establishment of the "TUM Institute for Advanced Study" at the Technical University (TU) of Munich and has been supporting the endowed chair in lighting engineering at the Technical University of Darmstadt since 2008. Besides technical expertise, the BMW Group also values social skills and intercultural awareness and experience ­ skills which are indispensable to the success of a global company. Another focus is the challenge of HIV / Aids ­ since this af fects both BMW Group employees and their communities. The company has developed programmes for disease prevention and education in a number of locations. Once they had proven successful, these programmes were transferred to several communities. The BMW Group encourages the exchange of ideas and intercultural understanding through a variety of cultural ini tiatives. Its two foundations, the BMW Foundation Herbert Quandt and the Eberhard von Kuenheim Foundation, are dedicated to sociopolitical issues as well. All projects are adapted to local needs and therefore man aged by the BMW Group locally. Priorities and guidelines are determined by Corporate and Governmental Affairs and the Corporate Strategy division at the headquarters in Munich.

Local commitment In addition to its global concept and local adapta tions, the BMW Group also supports the communities in which it operates. As a good corporate citizen, the company puts its competences and capacities to the service of sustaining and enhancing these com munities. This helps create an environment where society and company can rely on each other and face challenges together. Rapid disaster relief is just one example: In China, BMW China and BMW Brilliance Automotive, together with the China Charity Foundation ­ one of the largest nongovernmental charities in the country ­ have set up the "BMW WarmHeart Fund". This foundation, which received seed capital equivalent to 930,000 euros from the BMW Group, funded rebuilding activities and supports longterm aid and development pro grammes in the severely affected province of Sichuan. The May 2008 earthquake in the region killed 80,000 people and wounded a further 400,000. After the bush fires in the Australian state of Victoria in January and February 2009, in which 200 people died and thousands lost their homes, BMW Group Australia donated 100,000 Australian dollars to the "Victorian Bushfire Appeal Fund" as a first step. Employee dona tions were then matched by the company. The way in which spontaneous disaster relief develops into an effective longterm commitment can be ob served in the Cuddalore district in India. There, the BMW Group helped with the reconstruction of villages and the construction of floodproof housing. Follow ing the completion of reconstruction activities in 2009, the participants in the project are now working to pro vide education opportunities for the communities' children and teenagers. The BMW Group has con tributed 350,000 euros to this project.

www.bmw.com.cn/fund

www.tum-ias.de

63

06.2

Road safety projects. As a premium supplier of individual mobility, championing maximum road safety is a natural focus for the BMW Group.

www.bmwgroup.com/roadsafety

The BMW Group is not only committed to the safety of its own customers, but to the safety of all road users through its support for research and prevention projects worldwide. A particular focus in this field is the safety of children and teenagers, who, as experience shows, are at the greatest risk. High tech for lower accident rates The BMW Group is breaking new ground in this field. AMULETT (the German acronym for "Active mobile acci dent avoidance and mitigation of accidents through co operative data acquisition and tracking technology") is an example of its innovative approach. This technology has been developed over the last three years by BMW Group Research and Technology in cooperation with the Fraun hofer Institute for Integrated Circuits (IIS), the Technical University (TU) of Munich and other partners. The context: In 40 % of all fatal pedestrian accidents, the driver does not see the pedestrian until immediately before the collision. With AMULETT (see also Chapter 03.3), however, the vehicle communicates with a radio transponder the pedestrian wears and gives the driver ample warning of road users con cealed by obstacles. The pilot project, which was sponsored by the Bavarian Ministry of Economic Affairs, Infrastruc ture, Traffic and Technology, was presented to the public in May 2009. While the implementation of such safety technologies is still being researched, pedestrians can already change their behaviour to improve their safety. This is particularly true for inexperienced road users, for whom the BMW Group opened a children's traffic school at BMW Welt in 2009. On certain days, trained educators teach children aged three to six how to use the roads in a fun way. Safely to school 2008 saw the beginning of the pilot project "Safely to School with Jim Button" which the BMW Group developed jointly with the German Automobile Association ADAC for Bavarian elementary schools. In this project, groups of up to eight children in first and second grade are accompanied on their way to school and familiarised with road traffic. The BMW Group ­ in cooperation with road safety volun teers, parents' associations and other partners ­ also pro vides "School Route Maps for Primary School Children" to first graders at about 130 Munich and 226 Berlin schools. On these maps, particular danger spots are highlighted and a safe and accidentfree route to school recommended.

The slogan for the BMW Group's 2009 road safety programme in China is "I am a pioneer of road safety". The activities promoting better road safety reach around 100,000 children per year.

The BMW Group has been involved in this safety project in Munich for 25 years now. The children's road safety programme in China, on the other hand, is a comparatively recent addition. Since 2005, safety training has got Chinese children "fit for traffic". In 2008, 3,200 children from more than 160 preschools through out China participated in the programme. In addition, the BMW Group provided free road safety packs to 500 pre schools with more than 100,000 children over the same period. Half a world away, in South America, the company has con tinued its driver training for young drivers. The programme, which had been available only to high school students in Argentina and Brazil, was extended last year to include inter ested university students and staff of small companies. 3,400 students and young drivers have taken part in the "Road Education Programme" in Brazil and Argentina since 2006. The number of road fatalities is particularly high in these countries: in Argentina, 29 people are killed on the roads for every 100,000 of the population; in Brazil, 17; in Germany, 8.

www.bmwdrivertraining.com.ar

www.adac.de

64

06.3

Education and intercultural understanding. The BMW Group's success
is built primarily on its employees' skills and knowledge. The company thrives on expertise and a thirst for knowledge. That is why it does so much to support these com petences outside of the company.

www.jerusalemfoundation.org

Besides providing access to technical and scientific know ledge, the emphasis lies on encouraging social skills such as teamwork capabilities and intercultural understanding. The BMW Group is committed to promoting education and intercultural exchange at its locations and beyond through multiple initiatives. It sees cultural diversity as an oppor tunity from which both the company and society as a whole stand to benefit. One example: For over twenty years, the BMW Group has been involved in various projects initiated by the Jerusalem Foundation, which works mainly in Israel but receives support from all over the world. Further priorities include projects to educate young people about issues such as mobility and new technologies. The BMW Group funds the education of talented youngsters in the fields of science and technology at a number of edu cational facilities around the world. In economically under developed regions, the company furthermore helps raise school students' awareness about healthy living and environmental issues. With extensive course material on hydrogen under the title of "H2 ­ Mobility of the Future", the BMW Group familiarises students with environmentally friendly technologies. More than 5,000 classroom folders were distributed to 1,624 schools and other educational in stitutions in 20 countries worldwide in 2008. Mobility and technology are also a focus at BMW Welt in Munich, where young visitors between the ages of seven and thirteen have been experiencing mobility with all their senses since October 2007. The BMW Junior Campus's educational concept features, among other things, a cam pus lab with experiments related to drive systems and safety. In addition, young people can take a Mobility Tour. Under the motto "The journey is the destination", the BMW Museum has also been offering educational programmes since its reopening in 2008, making it a place of culture, encounter and learning for children and teenagers. Start-up aid for school and university students The BMW Group's global education initiatives take into account countries' local needs. While visitors are informed about the wider environmental background of tsunamis in the "Tsunami Education Park" in Aceh, Indonesia, the South African SEED programme (School Environmental Educa tion Development) raises awareness for health and envi ronmental issues among students at 49 elementary schools. Around the Rosslyn plant, the "BMW Excellence Project for the Advancement of Maths, Science and Technology" transforms simple classrooms into lively learning labs (in

2008, there were 15 schools participating). In Italy, the BMW Group ­ in cooperation with the University La Sapienza in Rome and ten schools ­ has initiated a project developing informative material on hydrogen and regenerative energies and raising students' awareness of these topics. Supporting tomorrow's experts The BMW Group provides about 50 vehicles a year to vo cational schools, other educational institutions and rehabili tation clinics in Germany for training and education pur poses. But a special focus of the educational projects is to nurture young technical talent. The following are just some examples of the wide range of projects: The BMW engine plant in Hams Hall (UK) cooperates with Coleshill School, a college specialising in mathematics and software pro gramming for students aged 11 to 18. Every year, the BMW Group provides 50 students from nine technical universities with training in South Korea. In the US, it supports "Auto motive Youth Education Systems" which introduce stu dents to career possibilities in the automotive industry. BMW UK's extensive educational portal is another example. Commitment to intercultural competence The BMW Group presents the international "BMW Group Award for Intercultural Commitment" to support innovative intercultural projects worldwide which build bridges of understanding between people living in seemingly dis parate environments. In this way, the company promotes further understanding and dialogue between cultures, languages, religions and nations. The award concept has been revised this year for greater employee involvement and to reflect the company's core competences. Another goal is to support groundbreaking projects through volunteer activities.

www.bmwgroup.com/ sustainablemobility

www.bmw-welt.com

www.bmweducation.co.uk

www.bmwgroup.com/award-life

www.seedprog.co.za www.bmw.co.za

65

06.4

Commitment to fighting HIV/ Aids. A particular focus of the BMW Group's

social commitment is to establish and support HIV / Aids prevention programmes in affected countries where the company operates. For years, this has included a workplace programme for employees and their families at the South African plant as well as activities directed at supporting local communities.

An important element of the BMW Group's HIV / Aids workplace programme is the option of voluntary testing.

www.bmwgroup.com/aidsprogram

www.seedprog.co.za www.bmw.co.za www.gbcimpact.org www.sabcoha.org www.lovelife.org.za

Over the past 25 years, HIV / Aids has become a pandemic which, according to UNAID estimates, has so far claimed about 25 million lives. Currently, about 33 million people are infected with the virus. In 2007 alone, more than 2.7 million people worldwide were newly infected. HIV / Aids is a glo bal threat and therefore also affects the BMW Group and its environment. For this reason, the company has long been working on concepts to help contain the pandemic and mitigate its consequences for society and staff. This also helps the company meet its commitment to the United Nations Millennium Development Goals, which includes "Combat HIV / Aids, malaria and other diseases" as its goal no. 6. Like other health topics, the fight against HIV / Aids is co ordinated by the BMW Group's Human Resources and Social Services division. Related social and community activities are managed by Corporate Communications at the headquarters in Munich. Operational implementation of the projects is carried out locally at the respective sites. Prevention beyond the company One of most successful projects in this field is the work place programme which the BMW Group set up for its em ployees and their family members in South Africa in 2001. It includes extensive education, prevention and treatment measures and has been effective far beyond the company. Today, many South Africans benefit from the project,

which originated as an inhouse project of the South African plant, through a community centre in Soshanguve, the collaboration with the SEED Schools (School Environ mental Education Development), the LoveLife centre in Knysna as well as through membership of the Global Business Coalition (GBC) and SABCOHA (South African Business Coalition on HIV and Aids). The LoveLife centre in Knysna, which the BMW Group opened in cooperation with the LoveLife organisation in 2007, provides counselling and prevention programmes for young people. Taking action at affected sites The BMW Group intends to transfer elements of its suc cessful workplace programme to other sites. In China, BMW Brilliance has been educating staff about infectious diseases, including HIV and Aids, as part of its employee programmes since 2006 and also offers voluntary HIV testing. In Thailand, the BMW Group has supported the "Baan Gerda" Children's Village for HIVinfected orphans since 2002. In India, it supports an educational project for schoolchildren that also includes HIV / Aids education and prevention measures. With its support for scientific projects at the University of San Raffaele in Milan, for instance, the company also con tributes to research into new medical treatments.

www.unglobalcompact.org www.un.org/millenniumgoals

66

06.5

Worldwide cultural commitment. For more than 30 years, cultural engage ment has been an integral part of the BMW Group's corporate communications activities. The company currently supports well over a hundred cultural projects in Europe, Asia, North and Central America, Australia and Africa. It is primarily drawn to formats from architecture and design, music and contemporary art which have an affinity with the competence and positioning of its brands.

www.bmwgroup.com/culture

www.freunde-der-nationalgalerie.de

www.staatsoper.de/operfueralle

This is exemplified on the one hand by joint projects, such as the BMW composition prize "musica viva" (in partnership with Bayerischer Rundfunk), the publicprivate partnership "Spielmotor" with the City of Munich or the Berlin National Gallery's prize for young art. On the other hand, the com pany supports projects that put it right at the heart of where vehicle technology, design and contemporary art meet ­ such as the BMW Art Car Collection (comprising sixteen cars so far) or the joint initiative with street art artist Robin Rhode to mark the debut of the BMW Z4 Roadster. The BMW Group focuses in particular on cultural events which make high art accessible to a wide audience. The "Festival de México" in Mexico City or "Opera for all" in Munich and Berlin are good examples of this. In all its ventures, the BMW Group respects artists' creative freedom, the expression of cultural diversity and the dis tinctiveness of great ideas ­ the very attributes which dis tinguish the BMW Group's own work. Cultural commit ments are managed by Corporate Communications, but individual sites and plants also sponsor their own cultural activities. Targeted support Through its involvement, the BMW Group supports cul tural development in the communities where its operations are based, and at the plants themselves, where a pro gramme of cultural activities is often available for staff. With its many and varied sponsorship activities, the BMW Group meets its responsibilities as a good corporate citizen and also strengthens its reputation as a company that assumes social responsibility. By evaluating feedback, surveys, academic studies and media reports, the BMW Group constantly monitors the effectiveness of its activities. Thus, cultural sponsorship is something which is not only valuable to society, but also to corporate strategy. Highlights from the fields of art, music and design Worldwide, a high singledigit million euro sum is ear marked for cultural sponsorship in the annual budget. In addition, the BMW Group invested more than 560,000 euros in cultural projects in 2008 ­ this represents 10 % of its total donations. One highlight of its involvement in design and architecture projects last year was the opening of the ex panded BMW Museum in Munich. In the striking building, visitors can now experience BMW vehicles from more than nine decades.

The 16th BMW Art Car by Olafur Eliasson.

BMW Culture Night ­ BMW Brilliance (China) sponsors the Liaoning Ballet Troupe.

www.bmw-museum.com

Musical events sponsored include, for instance, the "Con certs Sauvages" at Munich's Prinzregententheater, the "Baltic Sea Festival" in Stockholm, the "Jazz at the Castle" concert series in Prague, with 12 performances for 300 to 400 people each, and the "BMW Culture Night" with the Liaoning Ballet Troupe, which made guest performances in Shenyang, Dalian, Harbin and Changchun thanks to the support of BMW Brilliance Holdings Ltd. Last year, the BMW Group entered uncharted territory in its commitment to contemporary art: As part of the MINI ROOFTOP NYC, the company invited designers, musicians and fashion designers to a series of events on a rooftop in New York City. With the "BMW Young Asian Artists Series" in Singapore, the "Leipzig International Art Programme" and the "Ludlow 38" series of events (in cooperation with the New York Goethe Institute), it made the works of young artists accessible to a wide audience.

67

06.6

Foundations. The BMW Group's two independent foundations have been initiating and supporting efforts to solve society's challenges for many years.

www.bmwstiftung.de

www.kuenheim-stiftung.de

BMW Foundation Herbert Quandt The BMW Foundation Herbert Quandt was founded by BMW AG in 1970 on the occasion of Herbert Quandt's 60th birthday. It was intended to honour his achievements for the company and is dedicated to promoting dialogue between politics, academia, science and society. The foun dation, headquartered in Berlin and Munich, sees itself as a "relay station" transferring academic analyses and prac tical competences from various sectors and regions of the world to other areas where they may be used. The foundation's programmes foster an open exchange of opinions and knowledge, and establish longterm partner ships across various sectors in the quest for innovative solutions to society's problems.

BMW AG's Eberhard von Kuenheim Foundation The Eberhard von Kuenheim Foundation was founded by BMW AG in 2000 and named for its longstanding Chair man of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board, Eberhard von Kuenheim. Since then, the Munichbased foundation has become a catalyst for exemplary social ini tiatives. Under the motto "Freude am neu:wagen", it works with partners to develop and test pilot projects, setting things in motion in areas of society where action needs to be taken. It sees itself as a provider of bestpractice ap proaches for society ­ approaches which may be operated independently after successful testing and have a farreach ing impact in their everyday application.

www.joblinge.de

Addressing the role managers can play in advancing so ciety, both within and beyond their professional capacities, is one of the foundation's central tasks. The foundation promotes interdisciplinary knowledge transfer and the dis semination of successful structures and projects through forums, competitions, sponsorship programmes, scholar ships and publications. To this end, it sponsors both inno vative approaches to public welfare work, such as social businesses and social entrepreneurs, and classic nonprofit organisations. The foundation is currently working with organisations such as "Common Purpose e. V.", "self eG" and "startsocial e.V.". In cooperation with the German State Department, the foundation also enables young diplomats from the Near and Middle East, North Africa, South and South East Asia to gain deeper insights into how major German organisations and institutions think and work, as part of their international training. In addition, it also sponsors various publications, such as the foundation report issued by the Association of German Foundations and a study for Social Business and Impact Strategies by the GENISIS Institute which highlight different possibilities for social commitment. The foundation's assets from BMW AG funds amount to 50 million euros. BMW AG's annual donations also help finance the foundation's staff and material costs. In total, the BMW Foundation Herbert Quandt executed and sup ported projects totalling 3.15 million euros last year (2007: 2.96 million euros).

www.commonpurpose.org.uk

One of these innovative approaches is the "Joblinge" project which aims to place unemployed young people in professional training and careers. The project's concept was developed together with the Boston Consulting Group and other partners, with an emphasis on providing indi vidual and practical support for young people. Every young person in the programme is mentored by an experienced volunteer who can offer practical help and advice on starting a career. BMW Group employees are among the mentors. One decisive factor is the project's support structure: It is implemented by regionally organised nonprofit public limited companies (gAGs) and shareholders such as com panies, private individuals or local authorities, pooling the combined competence and possibilities of various sectors. BMW AG, too, is one of the founding shareholders of the Joblinge gAG in Munich. In keeping with the foundation's principles, the project is regarded as a model. Once the pilot phase has been completed in 2010, the foundation plans to transfer it to other locations through social fran chising. A good example for how the foundation initiates longterm change is its successful "Tatfunk" project, which originated in cooperation with the BMW Group. It is a course for older secondary school students in which they develop and pro duce their own radio show. The students plan their school year themselves and work together as a project team. The teacher takes on the role of moderator; an external pro fessional shares technical expertise. Because of its experi ence with Tatfunk, the foundation was asked to assist the Bavarian Ministry of Education in introducing a mandatory practical project component for schools called the P Seminar. The Tatfunk approach has thus become part of the Bavarian secondary school syllabus.

www.tatfunk.de

68

Challenge the present. Let your visions define your actions. Never stop being a pioneer.

69

Contents

Key facts and figures

01

Sustainability management -- 70 Stakeholder dialogue -- 70 Sustainability in the supply chain -- 72 Objectives -- 73 Economics -- 74 The year 2008 -- 74 Objectives -- 77 Product responsibility -- 78 Understanding and embedding -- 78 Technologies for sustainable mobility -- 78 Recycling -- 83 Objectives -- 84 Group-wide environmental protection -- 86 Resource management and environmental protection -- 86 Energy consumption and emissions -- 88 Materials use and waste management -- 91 Water and wastewater -- 92 Efficient transport logistics -- 93 Objectives -- 94 Employees -- 96 Attractive employer -- 96 Perfect conditions for the number one success factor -- 96 Performance and reward -- 100 Shaping change flexibly -- 100 Cooperation and appreciation -- 100 Objectives -- 101 Society -- 102 Objectives -- 102
GRI Index -- 104 UN Global Compact ­ Communication on Progress -- 107

02 03

04

05

06

01
01.2 Stakeholder dialogue
in %
No comment Very good

70

Sustainability management

Evaluation of BMW Group sustainability activities* (telephone survey)
Very good Good Satisfactory
Un satisfactory Satisfactory

37 35 5 2 21

Unsatisfactory No comment

The evaluation is based on stakeholder statements concerning the BMW Group's activities in the areas of sustainability management, product responsibility, environmental protection in production, employees and corporate social responsibility. Multiple answers were permitted. 100 % refers to the combined number of mentions for all topics.

Good

Sustainability management Very good Good Satisfactory
Satisfactory

Product responsibility 31 43 3 0 23
Good No comment Unsatisfactory Satisfactory

No comment

Very good

Very good Good Satisfactory Unsatisfactory No comment
Very good

54 31 3 6 6

Unsatisfactory No comment

Good

Environmental protection in production Very good Good Satisfactory
Satisfactory

Employees 37 37 3 0 23
Unsatisfactory Satisfactory

No comment

Very good

No comment

Very good

Very good Good Satisfactory Unsatisfactory No comment

31 31 6 3 29

Unsatisfactory No comment

Good

Good

Corporate social responsibility Very good Good Satisfactory Unsatisfactory
Un satisfactory Satisfactory Good
*

No comment

Very good

31 31 10 3 25

No comment

International stakeholder survey (via telephone) in winter 2008 / 2009 among 32 stakeholders from seven countries

71

Evaluation of BMW Group sustainability activities* (online survey)
in %
No comment Unsatisfactory Satisfactory Very good

Very good Good Satisfactory Unsatisfactory No comment

34 42 16 5 3

The evaluation is based on the participants' statements concerning the BMW Group's activities in the areas of climate protection and alternative drives, environmental protection in production, employees and corporate social responsibility. Multiple answers were permitted. 100 % refers to the combined number of mentions for all topics.

Good

Climate protection and alternative drives
No comment Unsatisfactory Satisfactory

Environmental protection in production Very good Good Satisfactory Unsatisfactory No comment 31 43 16 8 2
Satisfactory No comment Unsatisfactory Very good

Very good

Very good Good Satisfactory Unsatisfactory No comment

40 43 11 2 4

Good

Good

Employees
No comment Unsatisfactory

Corporate social responsibility Very good Good Satisfactory Unsatisfactory No comment 33 37 20 6 4
Satisfactory No comment Unsatisfactory

Very good

Very good

Very good Good Satisfactory Unsatisfactory No comment

32 43 17 4 4

Satisfactory

Good
*

Good

Online survey in winter 2008 / 2009 among 238 participants

72

1

Sustainability management

01.3 Sustainability in the supply chain
Regional mix of BMW Group purchase volumes 2008
in %, basis: production material
GRI G3 Indicator EC6 Asia / Australia Central and Eastern Europe Africa

Germany Rest of Western Europe
NAFTA

45 21 13 12 6 3

Central and Eastern Europe
NAFTA

Asia / Australia Africa

Rest of Western Europe

Germany

Information on environmental compatibility of components
Number of technical data sheets for purchased parts (accumulated)
180,000 150,000 120,000 90,000 60,000 30,000

04 32,231

05 52,856

06

07

08

82,260 119,731 158,600

The BMW Group continuously manages and optimises the environmental impact of components in the supply chain. In 2008 alone, about 39,000 data records for series parts were transferred and assessed. Information on materials used is requested and evaluated for vehicle homologation. Recyclability is thus assessed without the need to dismantle the car. Instead, the process is carried out by means of virtual cars, following a certified procedure. The BMW Group's purchasing conditions furthermore define the requirements regarding the environmental impact of supplied components. These requirements are detailed further in perfor mance specifications as well as material and component tests. As soon as development scopes are commissioned or purchased parts developed, involved parties are advised of the obligation to take certain environmental standards ­ such as component recyclability ­ into consideration. In this way, the BMW Group guarantees that the strict standards are adhered to and met at all stages of the product development process. The working group "Substances" assesses risks arising from the use of certain materials in advance and manages the selection process and development activities accordingly. But not only series parts undergo a strictly de fined validation process, the same applies to all substances and materials necessary for production, such as paints and adhesives. The existing processes are a key prerequisite for mastering the challenges involved in implementing further environmental laws and bans of certain substances. An important example in this context is the EU's REACH directive that also applies to suppliers. By adopting and enforcing these rules, the BMW Group fulfils its obligations as a carmaker, im porter and downstream user.

73

Status of objectives in the area of sustainability management *
Strategic objectives Strategy and organisation Further development of BMW Group sustainability management Further development of the sustainability strategy and increased coordination of indi vidual divisions worldwide Further development of the sustainable value approach to corporate sustainability con trolling Investor relations Integration of sustainability issues in investor relations activities 2008 Socially responsible investment (SRI) road shows, conference calls, in 2006 approximately 5 % of all IR contacts specifically on SRI, 2008 target: 10 % of roadshows on SRI issues and alternative / environmentallyfriendly drives Strengthen integration of stakeholder surveys and events 2009
SRI roadshows hosted in Zurich, Paris and London in November 2008. In addition, numerous conference calls with investors and analysts on the BMW Group's sustainability concepts and pro grammes carried out. Specific implementation details are included in the standard investor relations presentation.

Measures

Deadline Status

2008

Sustainability strategy developed crossfunctionally. Adopted in July 2009. Sustainability Circle and Sustainability Board established. Further development of sustainable value approach and specific implementation of wastewaterfree production at the Steyr plant as well as monetary evaluation / costs of environmental resources

2009

Stakeholder dialogue Extend stakeholder dialogue Online survey and second phone survey in winter 2008/2009 com pleted. First Stakeholder Roundtable on sustainable mobility hosted in February 2009. Further development of the questionnaire for the supplier selection process and selfassessment as well as definition of exclusion criteria and escalation scheme. The company's purchasing condi tions, revised and updated in autumn 2009, require direct suppliers and subsuppliers (socalled Tier 2 suppliers) to commit them selves to and implement the same social and ecological standards. Revised questionnaire for selfassessment of suppliers includes an evaluation matrix with exclusion criteria from the fields of environ mental protection, social standards and product development. Suppliers are requested to provide information about materials and substances used in the form of technical data sheets as well as on REACH requirements.

Sustainability in the supply chain Integration of ecological and social standards in processes between purchasing and suppliers / partners Increase random sampling tests on com pliance with social and ecological standards at suppliers through frequent visits 2009

Develop suitable indicators to identify devi ations and room for improvement early on

2009

*

Previously published in the Sustainable Value Report 2007 / 2008

New objectives in the area of sustainability management
Strategic objectives Sustainability management Further development of BMW Group sustainability management Integration of sustainability strategy in subsidiaries and retail organisations worldwide Extending the risk management system to include ecological and social factors Top listings in external sustainability ratings Stakeholder dialogue Continuation of stakeholder dialogue Sustainability in the supply chain Efficient supply chain that applies the same ambitious sustainability standards worldwide and at all steps of value creation Establish assessment processes at suppliers' locations and take sustainability aspects into consideration at all steps of value creation already in the concept phase of new vehicle projects Raise awareness among purchasers for the importance of ecological and social standards and validate supplier partners 2010 et seq. 2010 et seqq. Host further Stakeholder Roundtables in 2009 and 2010 2009 /2010 2010 2010 annually Measures Deadline

02
02.1 The year 2008
Revenues
in euro billion
GRI G3 Indicator EC1
55 50 45 40 35 30

74

Economics

Profit before tax
in euro million
4,500 3,750 3,000 2,250 1,500 750

04 44.3

05 46.7

06 49.0

07 56.0

08 53.2
*

04 * 3,583

05 3,287

06 4,124

07 3,873

08 351

adjusted for new accounting treatment of pension obligations

Financial figures
in euro million
GRI G3 Indicator EC1

2004 Revenues Capital expenditure Depreciation and amortisation Operating cash flow * Profit before financial result (EBIT) Profit before tax Net profit
*

2005 46,656 3,993 3,025 6,184 3,793 3,287 2,239

2006 48,999 4,313 3,272 5,373 4,050 4,124 2,874

2007 56,018 4,267 3,683 6,246 4,212 3,873 3,134

2008 53,197 4,204 3,670 4,471 921 351 330

Change in % ­ 5.0 ­ 1.5 ­ 0.4 ­ 28.4 ­ 78.1 ­ 90.9 ­ 89.5

44,335 4,347 2,672 6,157 3,774 3,583 ** 2,242 **

reported in the cash flow statement up to 2006 as cash inflow from operating activities of Industrial Operations and from 2007 as cash inflow from operating activities of the Automobiles segment. ** adjusted for new accounting treatment of pension obligations

Pension provisions
in euro million
GRI G3 Indicator EC3
(chart on the left)

BMW Group Employees at end of year *
120,000 110,000 100,000 90,000 80,000 70,000

6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000

GRI G3 Indicator LA1
(chart on the right)

04 * 4,224
*

05 5,255

06 5,017

07 4,627

08 3,314
*

04

05

06

07

08

105,972 105,798 106,575 107,539 100,041
Figures exclude suspended contracts of employment, employees in the nonwork phases of preretirement parttime arrangements and low income earners.

adjusted for new accounting treatment of pension obligations The fluctuations in pension provisions result from the changes to the actuarial calculation parameters, in particular discounting rates. In turn, these are in principle guided by the applicable current market interest rates.

75

Automobile production of the BMW Group by plant in 2008
in 1,000 units
GRI G3 Indicator EC9 Graz ** Shenyang * Goodwood Rosslyn Leipzig Regensburg

Regensburg Dingolfing Oxford Munich Spartanburg

274.0 241.3 235.0 202.9 170.7

Leipzig Rosslyn Goodwood Shenyang* Graz (Magna Steyr) **

150.0 48.0 1.4 33.7 82.9

Spartanburg

Dingolfing

Munich
* **

Oxford

Joint venture Contract production

BMW Group Deliveries to customers by vehicle
GRI Indicator A4
(Sector Supplement)

2004
BMW MINI

2005 1,126,768 200,428 796 1,327,992 97,474

2006 1,185,088 188,077 805 1,373,970 100,064

2007 1,276,793 222,875 1,010 1,500,678 102,467

2008 1,202,239 232,425 1,212 1,435,876 101,685

1,023,583 184,357 792 1,208,732 92,266

RollsRoyce Total automobiles Motorcycles*
*

excluding Husqvarna Motorcycles (13,511 motorcycles)

BMW Group Deliveries of automobiles by region and market
in 1,000 units
GRI Indicator A4
(Sector Supplement)

2004
Rest of Europe North America Germany Asia United Kingdom Other markets

2005 350.8 329.0 295.9 125.7 156.2 70.4 1,328.0

2006 375.0 337.4 285.3 142.2 154.1 80.0 1,374.0

2007 443.6 364.0 280.9 159.5 173.8 78.9 1,500.7

2008 432.2 331.8 280.9 165.7 151.5 73.8 1,435.9

299.7 315.9 283.6 106.4 145.3 57.8 1,208.7

Total

76

2

Economics

Contract portfolio of BMW Group Financial Services
in 1,000 units
GRI G3 Indicator EC6
(chart on the right)

Regional mix of BMW Group purchase volumes 2008
in %, basis: production material

3,500 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000

Asia / Australia Central and Eastern Europe

Africa

Germany Rest of Western Europe
NAFTA

45 21 13 12 6 3

Central and Eastern Europe
NAFTA

Asia / Australia Africa

04 1,843

05 2,087

06 2,271

07 2,630

08 3,032
Rest of Western Europe

Germany

BMW Group Value added 2008
GRI G3 Indicator EC1

in % 64.8

Employees

Cost of materials

Net value added Cost of materials Depreciation and amortisation

19.3 56.5 14.1 10.1

Net value added

Other expenses

27.0 5.1 1.9 1.2

Providers of finance Government / public sector Shareholders Group
Other expenses Depreciation and amortisation

BMW Group Capital expenditure
in euro million
GRI G3 Indicator EC1
4,500 4,000 3,500 3,000 2,500

Current tax expense
in euro million
1,000 800 600 400 200

04 4,347

05 3,993

06 4,313

07 4,267

08 4,204

04 841

05 437

06 993

07 1,002

08 75

77

Return on Capital Employed
GRI G3 Indicator EC1

Earnings for ROCE purposes in euro million 2008
BMW Group

Capital employed in euro million 2008 28,315 14,056 432 2007 27,321 13,953 444

Return on Capital Employed in % 2008 2.3 4.9 13.9 2007 15.3 24.7 18.0

2007 4,193 3,450 80

639 690 60

Automobiles Motorcycles

Public sector grants: Public subsidies in the form of reduced taxes on assets and consumption-based taxes
GRI G3 Indicator EC4

Public sector grants: Allowances from public sector institutions
in euro million
50 40 30 20 10

in euro million
25 20 15 10 5

04 13

05 15

06 11

07 16

08 23

04 39

05 36

06 32

07 36

08 32

Status of objectives in the area of economics*
Strategic objectives Economics Most successful premium manufacturer
*

Measures

Deadline

Status

Sales target as established in Strategy Number ONE

2012

1.4 million units (2008)

Previously published in the Sustainable Value Report 2007 / 2008

New objectives in the area of economics
Strategic objectives Measures Deadline

Result / profitability and sustained value creation Most successful premium manufacturer Reduction in cost of material of 4 billion euros 2012

Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) in excess of 26 % as well as an EBIT margin of 8 ­ 10 % in the automobile segment 2012 Compliance and anti-corruption Continuous optimisation of compliance organisation Complete the implementation of the compliance organisation at BMW AG, BMW Bank GmbH and other German subsidiaries Continue the rollout of compliance processes in business units at BMW Group in Germany and abroad, including the completion of the second phase of the compliance training rollout for an additional 3,000 executives at all in ternational group companies Translation of the Legal Compliance Code into seven additional languages to complement the German and the English versions 2009 2009

2009

03
in % of 37,000 million tons of CO2
Rail traffic Bus traffic, 2 / 3wheeled vehicles Shipping Air traffic Road haulage Cars Households, small producers

78

Product responsibility

03.1 Understanding and embedding
Share of traffic sector in worldwide CO2 emissions in 2004
Power / heating stations Industry Deforestation
Power / heating stations

27.0 25.0 22.0 9.0 7.0 4.0 2.0 2.0 1.5 0.5

Households. small producers Cars Road haulage Air traffic Shipping

Deforestation Industry

Bus traffic, 2 / 3wheeled vehicles Rail traffic

Sources: IPCC Fourth Assessment Report, WG III, 2007. World Business Council for Sustainable Development, 2004. Figures rounded.

03.2 Technologies for sustainable mobility
Development of CO2 emissions of BMW Group cars in Europe (EU-15)
GRI Indicator A7
(Sector Supplement)

(Index: 1995 = 100; Basis: fleet consumption of newly registered cars in Europe (EU15) measured on the basis of the New European Driving Cycle in accordance with the ACEA commitment)
105 100 95 90 85 80 75 70

95 100.0
*

96 101.0

97 102.4

98 101.0

99 98.6

00 96.7

01 96.7

02 92.9

03 92.9

04 94.8

05 90.0

06 88.6

07 80.0

08 * 73.3

CO2 emissions of newly registered cars in Europe for 2008 stood at 154 grams CO2 per kilometre driven (EU15) and 156 grams CO2 per kilometre driven (EU27).

CO2 emissions of BMW Group vehicles (EU-27)
GRI Indicator A7
(Sector Supplement)

Fleet consumption of newly registered vehicles in Europe (EU15 / EU27) in the New European Driving Cycle in grams CO2 / km
190 170 150 130

05* 189
* **

06* 186

07 168

08 156

15 < 140 **

Values for 2005 and 2006 refer to EU15. The target is based on longterm production planning. The target for the introductory period 2012 to 2014 is to meet the EU's CO2 emissions performance standards for passenger cars.

79

Fuel efficiency and CO2 emissions of the most efficient and best-selling models in 2008*
GRI Indicators A6, A7
(Sector Supplement)

Combined in l / 100 km Most efficient model: MINI Cooper D ** Bestselling models in Germany:*** 1st BMW 320d Touring 2nd BMW 118d Bestselling models in the EU:*** 1st BMW 118d 2nd BMW 320d Touring
*

CO2 emissions in grams CO2 / km

3.9

104

4.9 (5.8) 4.5 (5.5)

130 (150) 119 (146)

4.5 (5.5) 4.9 (5.8)

119 (146) 130 (150)

Values measured in accordance with the New European Driving Cycle (EU Directive; 80 / 1268 / EEC in the relevant applicable version). Valid for vehicles with a European country specification. ** manual transmission *** Figures in brackets refer to automatic transmission.

Fuel savings of BMW Group vehicles sold in the US (according to CAFE*)
in mpg**
GRI Indicator A6
(Sector Supplement)

28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18

2000
Fleet average of vehicles sold
* ** ***

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008***

Fleet average of light trucks sold

CAFE: Corporate Average Fuel Economy mpg: miles per gallon preliminary figures

80

3

Product responsibility

Consumption and emissions data of BMW Group vehicles
GRI Indicators A6, A7
(Sector Supplement)

Values measured in accordance with the New European Driving Cycle (EU Directive: 80 / 1268 / EEC in the relevant applicable version). Valid for vehicles with a European country specification.
Model * Urban (l / 100 km) Extraurban (l / 100 km) Combined (l / 100 km) CO2 emis sions (g / km) Model * Urban (l / 100 km) Extraurban (l / 100 km) Combined (l / 100 km) CO2 emis sions (g / km)

BMW 116i 3door 4 116i 3door 4, 6 118i 3door 4 120i 3door 4 130i 3door 4 116d 3-door 1 118d 3-door 4 120d 3-door 4 123d 3-door 4

7.9 (8.7) 7.9 (8.9) 7.9 (8.7) 8.6 (8.9) 12.4 (12.5) 5.3 5.4 (6.9) 6.1 (7.2) 6.5 (7.3) 7.9 (8.7) 7.9 (8.9) 7.9 (8.7) 8.6 (8.9) 12.4 (12.5) 5.3 5.4 (6.9) 6.1 (7.2) 6.5 (7.3) 8.6 (8.9) 11.9 (11.7) 13.0 (13.2) 5.4 (6.9) 6.1 (7.2) 6.5 (7.3) 8.5 (9.2) 8.8 (9.4) 12.1 (11.9) 13.3 (13.5) 5.8 (7.3) 6.4 (7.6) 6.7 (7.6) 8.1 (8.9) 8.1 (8.7) 8.3 (9.3) 9.8 (10.0) 11.0 (11.1) 10.0 (10.2) 11.1 (11.2) 13.2 (13.1) 14.1 (13.8) 5.4 5.7 (7.3) 6.0 (7.3) 6.7 (7.9) 7.6 (8.1) 7.3 (8.0) 8.3 (8.8) 9.1 17.9 (17.0) 8.1 8.1 (8.9) 8.3 (9.5) 9.9 (10.2) 11.1 (11.2) 10.2 (10.7)

5.1 (5.4) 5.1 (5.5) 5.1 (5.4) 5.4 (5.3) 6.3 (6.2) 3.9 4.0 (4.5) 4.1 (4.4) 4.4 (4.6) 5.1 (5.4) 5.1 (5.5) 5.1 (5.4) 5.4 (5.3) 6.3 (6.2) 3.9 4.0 (4.5) 4.1 (4.4) 4.4 (4.6) 5.4 (5.3) 6.0 (6.2) 7.0 (6.9) 4.0 (4.5) 4.1 (4.4) 4.4 (4.6) 5.5 (5.7) 5.6 (5.6) 6.2 (6.4) 7.1 (7.0) 4.4 (4.9) 4.3 (4.7) 4.6 (4.9) 5.3 (5.5) 5.3 (5.4) 5.3 (5.3) 5.7 (5.9) 6.4 (6.5) 5.9 (5.9) 6.5 (6.6) 6.7 (6.9) 7.1 (7.3) 4.0 4.1 (4.6) 4.1 (4.6) 4.6 (4.8) 4.6 (5.1) 4.8 (5.2) 5.5 (5.7) 5.3 9.2 (9.0) 5.3 5.3 (5.6) 5.3 (5.5) 5.8 (6.1) 6.5 (6.6) 6.1 (6.2)

6.1 (6.6) 6.1 (6.8) 6.1 (6.6) 6.6 (6.6) 8.5 (8.5) 4.4 4.5 (5.4) 4.8 (5.4) 5.2 (5.6) 6.1 (6.6) 6.1 (6.8) 6.1 (6.6) 6.6 (6.6) 8.5 (8.5) 4.4 4.5 (5.4) 4.8 (5.4) 5.2 (5.6) 6.6 (6.6) 8.2 (8.2) 9.2 (9.2) 4.5 (5.4) 4.8 (5.4) 5.2 (5.6) 6.8 (7.0) 6.6 (6.8) 8.4 (8.4) 9.4 (9.4) 4.9 (5.8) 5.1 (5.8) 5.4 (5.9) 6.3 (6.8) 6.3 (6.6) 6.4 (6.8) 7.2 (7.4) 8.1 (8.2) 7.4 (7.5) 8.2 (8.3) 9.1 (9.2) 9.7 (9.7) 4.5 4.7 (5.6) 4.8 (5.6) 5.4 (5.9) 5.7 (6.2) 5.7 (6.2) 6.5 (6.8) 6.7 12.4 (11.9) 6.3 6.3 (6.8) 6.4 (7.0) 7.3 (7.6) 8.2 (8.3) 7.6 (7.9)

143 (154) 143 (158) 143 (154) 153 (155) 199 (199) 118 119 (144) 128 (144) 138 (148) 143 (154) 143 (158) 143 (154) 153 (155) 199 (199) 118 119 (144) 128 (144) 138 (148) 153 (155) 190 (190) 220 (221) 119 (144) 128 (144) 138 (148) 159 (164) 158 (163) 195 (195) 224 (225) 129 (152) 134 (152) 144 (154) 146 (159) 146 (155) 148 (159) 168 (174) 188 (192) 173 (175) 191 (193) 218 (221) 232 (232) 118 123 (148) 128 (148) 143 (156) 153 (164) 152 (164) 171 (178) 177 295 (285) 147 147 (159) 149 (164) 170 (178) 190 (194) 177 (184)

116i 5door 4 116i 5door 4, 6 118i 5door 4 120i 5door 4 130i 5door 4 116d 5-door 1 118d 5-door 4 120d 5-door 4 123d 5-door 4 120i Coupé 4 125i Coupé 4 135i Coupé 118d Coupé 4 120d Coupé 4 123d Coupé 4 118i Convertible 4 120i Convertible 4 125i Convertible 4 135i Convertible 118d Convertible 4, 7 120d Convertible 4, 7 123d Convertible 4 316i Sedan 4 318i Sedan 4 320i Sedan 4 325i Sedan 4 325i xDrive Sedan 4 330i Sedan 4 330i xDrive Sedan 4 335i Sedan 335i xDrive Sedan 316d Sedan 1, 4 318d Sedan 4, 7 320d Sedan 4, 7 320d xDrive Sedan 325d Sedan 330d Sedan 4 330d xDrive Sedan 4 335d Sedan 2 M3 Sedan 3 316i Touring 1, 4 318i Touring 4 320i Touring 4 325i Touring 4 325i xDrive Touring 4 330i Touring 4

BMW 330i xDrive Touring 4 335i Touring 335i xDrive Touring 318d Touring 4, 7 320d Touring 4, 7 320d xDrive Touring 325d Touring 330d Touring 4 330d xDrive Touring 4 335d Touring 2

11.2 (11.3) 13.4 (13.2) 14.2 (13.9) 5.8 (7.5) 6.1 (7.5) 6.9 (8.0) 7.8 (8.2) 7.5 (8.1) 8.4 (8.9) 9.2 8.1 8.6 (9.3) 9.8 (10.0) 11.0 (11.1) 10.0 (10.2) 11.1 (11.2) 13.2 (12.5) 14.1 (13.8) 6.0 (7.4) 6.7 (7.9) 7.6 (8.1) 7.3 (8.0) 8.3 (8.8) 9.1 17.9 (17.0) 8.8 (9.8) 10.2 (10.6) 10.5 (11.1) 13.6 (12.8) 6.9 (7.7) 8.0 (8.3) 7.7 (8.2) 18.7 (17.3) 9.2 (9.4) 10.4 (10.6) 10.6 (10.7) 11.6 (11.5) 11.2 (11.0) 11.9 (11.9) 15.8 (14.4) 16.6 (15.5) 6.5 (7.5) 8.2 (8.5) 8.8 (9.1) 8.6 (9.1) 9.2 (9.6) 9.0 21.7 9.4 (9.5) 10.9 (10.9) 11.1 (11.0) 12.0 (11.8) 11.5 (11.4) 12.3 (12.4) 17.0 (16.1) 6.7 (7.7)

6.6 (6.7) 6.9 (7.0) 7.2 (7.4) 4.2 (4.8) 4.2 (4.8) 4.8 (4.9) 4.8 (5.2) 5.0 (5.3) 5.6 (5.8) 5.4 5.3 5.4 (5.3) 5.7 (5.9) 6.4 (6.5) 5.9 (5.9) 6.5 (6.6) 6.7 (6.7) 7.1 (7.3) 4.1 (4.7) 4.6 (4.8) 4.6 (5.1) 4.8 (5.2) 5.5 (5.7) 5.3 9.2 (9.0) 5.6 (5.8) 5.9 (6.3) 6.2 (6.5) 7.1 (7.0) 4.3 (5.0) 5.0 (5.3) 5.2 (5.4) 9.6 (9.4) 5.4 (5.4) 5.8 (6.0) 5.8 (6.0) 6.4 (6.4) 6.0 (5.8) 6.4 (6.2) 7.4 (6.9) 7.6 (7.2) 4.3 (4.6) 5.0 (5.3) 5.4 (5.6) 5.1 (5.2) 5.5 (5.5) 5.4 10.2 5.6 (5.5) 6.1 (6.2) 6.0 (6.1) 6.6 (6.7) 6.1 (5.9) 6.6 (6.4) 7.8 (7.5) 4.5 (4.7)

8.3 (8.4) 9.3 (9.3) 9.8 (9.8) 4.8 (5.8) 4.9 (5.8) 5.6 (6.0) 5.9 (6.3) 5.9 (6.3) 6.6 (6.9) 6.8 6.3 6.6 (6.8) 7.2 (7.4) 8.1 (8.2) 7.4 (7.5) 8.2 (8.3) 9.1 (8.8) 9.7 (9.7) 4.8 (5.7) 5.4 (5.9) 5.7 (6.2) 5.7 (6.2) 6.5 (6.8) 6.7 12.4 (11.9) 6.8 (7.3) 7.5 (7.9) 7.8 (8.2) 9.5 (9.1) 5.3 (6.0) 6.1 (6.4) 6.1 (6.4) 12.9 (12.3) 6.7 (6.9) 7.5 (7.7) 7.6 (7.7) 8.3 (8.3) 7.9 (7.7) 8.4 (8.3) 10.5 (9.7) 10.9 (10.3) 5.1 (5.6) 6.2 (6.5) 6.7 (6.9) 6.4 (6.6) 6.9 (7.0) 6.7 14.4 6.9 (7.0) 7.9 (7.9) 7.9 (7.9) 8.6 (8.6) 8.1 (7.9) 8.7 (8.6) 11.2 (10.7) 5.3 (5.8)

193 (195) 222 (223) 235 (235) 125 (150) 130 (150) 146 (159) 155 (165) 155 (165) 174 (181) 178 146 154 (159) 168 (174) 188 (192) 173 (175) 191 (193) 218 (210) 232 (232) 128 (149) 143 (156) 153 (164) 152 (164) 171 (178) 177 295 (285) 159 (169) 176 (185) 182 (190) 226 (217) 140 (157) 162 (170) 162 (170) 309 (293) 162 (164) 177 (181) 179 (182) 196 (196) 186 (182) 198 (196) 250 (232) 260 (246) 136 (149) 165 (172) 179 (183) 170 (176) 183 (186) 178 344 166 (167) 186 (186) 186 (186) 203 (204) 191 (187) 205 (204) 267 (254) 140 (154)

316i Coupé 1, 4 320i Coupé 4 325i Coupé 4 325i xDrive Coupé 4 330i Coupé 4 330i xDrive Coupé 4 335i Coupé 335i xDrive Coupé 320d Coupé 4, 7 320d xDrive Coupé 325d Coupé 330d Coupé 4 330d xDrive Coupé 4 335d Coupé 2 M3 Coupé 3 320i Convertible 4 325i Convertible 4 330i Convertible 4 335i Convertible 320d Convertible 4, 7 325d Convertible 330d Convertible 4 M3 Convertible 520i Sedan 523i Sedan 525i Sedan 525i xDrive Sedan 530i Sedan 530i xDrive Sedan 540i Sedan 550i Sedan 520d Sedan 5 525d Sedan 525d xDrive Sedan 530d Sedan 530d xDrive Sedan 535d Sedan 2 M5 Sedan 3 520i Touring 523i Touring 525i Touring 525i xDrive Touring 530i Touring 530i xDrive Touring 550i Touring 520d Touring 5

81

Model *

Urban (l / 100 km)

Extraurban (l / 100 km)

Combined (l / 100 km)

CO2 emis sions (g / km)

Model *

Urban (l / 100 km)

Extraurban (l / 100 km)

Combined (l / 100 km)

CO2 emis sions (g / km)

BMW 525d Touring 525d xDrive Touring 530d Touring 530d xDrive Touring 535d Touring 2 M5 Touring 3

8.4 (8.6) 9.1 (9.2) 8.8 (9.3) 9.6 (9.9) 9.2 21.7 12.3 16.2 8.1 11.2 (11.0) 17.8 (15.9) 9.2 11.8 (11.6) 19.2 (16.5) 9.6 21.4 22.0 13.8 14.0 16.4 16.4 17.1 17.1 18.8 18.9 9.0 9.1 9.0 13.0 6.1 6.7 6.4 7.0 (7.7) 7.8 12.6 12.8 (13.1) 13.4 (13.3) 7.9 8.2 (8.3) 9.7 (9.9) 9.7 13.8 17.0 10.4 10.5 19.3 14.9 17.7 10.4 10.5 10.8 19.3

5.2 (5.4) 5.6 (5.7) 5.3 (5.3) 5.8 (5.6) 5.6 10.5 6.9 8.3 5.6 6.0 (5.8) 8.1 (7.4) 5.6 6.3 (6.0) 8.8 (7.7) 5.8 10.2 10.6 7.6 7.7 8.5 8.5 8.9 8.9 9.5 9.6 5.5 5.6 5.7 7.3 4.7 5.1 4.7 5.1 (5.4) 5.5 6.9 7.3 (7.4) 7.3 (7.6) 5.2 5.5 (5.8) 6.0 (6.4) 6.7 8.3 9.3 7.0 7.1 10.8 8.9 9.9 7.0 7.1 9.4 10.8

6.4 (6.6) 6.9 (7.0) 6.6 (6.8) 7.2 (7.2) 6.9 14.6 8.9 11.2 6.5 7.9 (7.7) 11.7 (10.5) 6.9 8.3 (8.1) 12.6 (10.9) 7.2 14.3 14.7 9.9 10.0 11.4 11.4 11.9 11.9 12.9 13.0 6.8 6.9 6.9 9.4 5.2 5.7 5.3 5.8 (6.2) 6.3 9.0 9.3 (9.5) 9.5 (9.7) 6.2 6.5 (6.7) 7.4 (7.7) 7.8 10.3 12.1 8.2 8.3 13.9 11.1 12.8 8.2 8.3 9.9 13.9

171 (176) 184 (187) 176 (180) 192 (192) 182 348 209 263 173 188 (184) 279 (249) 183 198 (192) 299 (258) 190 342 352 232 235 266 266 278 278 299 303 178 180 181 219 136 150 139 153 (164) 167 215 224 (228) 229 (233) 165 172 (178) 196 (206) 208 247 289 217 220 325 259 299 217 220 231 325

BMW Z4 sDrive23i 4 Z4 sDrive30i 4 Z4 sDrive35i 4 MINI MINI One (55 kW / 70 kW) MINI One D MINI Cooper MINI Cooper D MINI Cooper S 4 MINI John Cooper Works 1

12.4 (11.8) 12.4 (11.9) 13.5 (12.6)

6.2 (6.1) 6.2 (6.2) 7.0 (6.9)

8.5 (8.2) 8.5 (8.3) 9.4 (9.0)

199 (192) 199 (195) 219 (210)

535i Gran Turismo 2, 4 550i Gran Turismo 2, 4 530d Gran Turismo 2, 4 630i Coupé 650i Coupé 635d Coupé 2 630i Convertible 650i Convertible 635d Convertible 2 M6 Coupé 3 M6 Convertible 3 740i 2, 4 740Li 2, 4 750i 2, 4 750Li 2, 4 750i xDrive 2, 4 750Li xDrive 2, 4 760i 2, 4 760Li 2, 4 730d 2, 4 730Ld 2, 4 740d 2, 4 X1 xDrive28i 2, 4 X1 sDrive18d1, 4 X1 xDrive18d 1, 4 X1 sDrive20d 1, 4 X1 xDrive20d 4 X1 sDrive23d 2, 4 X3 xDrive20i 1 X3 xDrive25i X3 xDrive30i X3 xDrive18d 4 X3 xDrive20d 4 X3 xDrive30d X3 xDrive35d 2 X5 xDrive30si 2 X5 xDrive48i 2 X5 xDrive30d 2 X5 xDrive35d 2 X5 M 2, 4 X6 xDrive35i 2, 4 X6 xDrive50i 2, 4 X6 xDrive30d 2 X6 xDrive35d 2 ActiveHybrid X6 2, 4 X6 M 2, 4

6.8 (9.0) 4.7 6.9 (9.1) 4.7 (6.5) 7.9 (9.5) 9.2

4.4 (5.0) 3.5 4.5 (5.0) 3.5 (4.2) 5.5 (5.7) 5.6 4.7 (5.2) 5.7 (5.9) 5.8 4.5 (5.1) 4.5 (5.1) 3.6 (4.2) 5.5 (5.8) 5.7

5.3 (6.5) 3.9 5.4 (6.5) 3.9 (5.0) 6.4 (7.1) 6.9 5.7 (6.7) 6.6 (7.3) 7.1 5.4 (6.6) 5.5 (6.6) 4.1 (5.1) 6.4 (7.2) 7.0

128 (155) 104 129 (156) 104 (134) 149 (165) 165 137 (161) 153 (170) 169 130 (158) 132 (159) 109 (136) 150 (168) 167

MINI Cooper Convertible 7.4 (9.3) MINI Cooper S Convertible 4 8.1 (9.7) MINI John Cooper Works 9.3 Convertible 1 MINI One Clubman MINI Cooper Clubman MINI Cooper D Clubman MINI Cooper S Clubman 4 MINI John Cooper Works Clubman 1

6.9 (9.1) 7.1 (9.2) 4.9 (6.6) 7.9 (9.6) 9.3

Rolls-Royce RollsRoyce Phantom 2 RollsRoyce Phantom extended Wheelbase 2 RollsRoyce Phantom Drophead Coupé 2 RollsRoyce Phantom Coupé 2 RollsRoyce Ghost

23.2 23.3 23.2 23.2 20.5

11.3 11.4 11.3 11.3 9.6

15.7 15.8 15.7 15.7 13.6

377 380 377 377 317

*

Vehicles with average CO2 emissions of below / maximum 140 grams CO2 / km are highlighted.

Figures in brackets only valid for automatic transmissions. 1 only available with manual transmission 2 only available with automatic transmission 3 only with SMG Drivelogic, 7speed 4 EU5 series equipment 5 EU5 series equipment for lefthand drive vehicles 6 variant with 1.6litre cubic capacity 7 Consumption values for models with automatic transmission in righthand drive vehicles vary. Further information and constantly updated data for the vehicles is available on the Internet at www.bmw.com, www.mini.com and www.rollsroycemotorcars.com. As of September 2009 Values measured in accordance with the New European Driving Cycle (EU Directive: 80 / 1268 / EEC in the relevant applicable version). Valid for vehicles with a European country specification.

82

3

Product responsibility

Fuel efficiency enhancing technologies incorporated into BMW Group vehicles in Europe
(modelspecific variations possible ­ as of September 2009)
GRI G3 Indicator EN26

BMW BMW BMW BMW BMW 1 Series 3 Series 5 Series 6 Series 7 Series High Precision Injection with lean operation Fully variable valve train (VALVETRONIC in BMW models) TwinPower turbo technology Eightspeed automatic transmission Auto Start Stop function (only for 4cylinder manual transmission) Brake Energy Regeneration Electric steering assistance Active aerodynamics (e. g. air flap control) Gear shift indicator (only for manual transmission) Reduced rolling resistance tyres Demandcontrolled fuel, coolant and oil pump
*

BMW X1

BMW X3

BMW X5

BMW X6

BMW Z4

MINI

*

System comparable to VALVETRONIC

Deliveries of BMW diesel automobiles
in 1,000 units and as a percentage of total volume
GRI Indicator A4
(Sector Supplement)

550 500 450 400 350 300

04 units as a percentage of total volume 352.5 34

05 438.3 39

06 472.7 40

07 525.9 41

08 511.2 43

Compliance with emissions performance standards (as of autumn 2009)
GRI Indicator A5
(Sector Supplement)

Standard Euro 4 (EU4) Euro 5 (EU5) Euro 6 (EU6)
* ** ***

Mandatory as of 1 Jan 2005 1 Sept 2009 * / 1 Jan 2011 ** 1 Sept 2014 * / 1 Sept 2015 **

Number of models 185 90 2***

Degree of coverage 100 about 48.6 about 1.1

mandatory for new type approvals mandatory for all new vehicle registrations The BMW 330d with optional BMW BluePerformance technology and the BMW 730d BluePerformance (from September 2009) already comply with the EU6 emissions performance standard.

83

Average noise emissions of BMW Group vehicles*
Share of models in % (of passenger cars sold in Germany in 2008)
GRI Indicator A8
(Sector Supplement)

60 50 40 30 20 10

All BMW Group vehicles comply with the legal requirements in dB(A) (referring to test procedures of the EG Directive 92 / 97 / EG).

< 71 dB in %
*

71 dB to 74 dB 59

74 dB to 75 dB 2

39

Weighted market average for noise emissions (logarithmic average) for noise produced by accelerating while passing (values of type evaluation; in accordance with EU Directive 92 / 97 / EG).

Cooperation among all stakeholders within the integrated approach
GRI G3 Indicator SO5

Automotive industry and suppliers Further develop efficient vehicle technologies and increase market share Increase percentage of alternative fuels (blending) Implement driver assistance systems, e. g. gear shift and efficiency indicators Improve fuel efficiency Enhance reduced rolling resistance tyres and increase market share Tyre pressure control systems Guarantee consistent legislation Improve traffic infrastructure / management Support research and development of new technologies Support CO2based motor vehicle tax and CO2 labelling
Responsibility Support / cooperation

Petroleum industry

Politics / Infra structure

Customer

03.5 Recycling
Average distribution of materials in BMW Group vehicles
in % of total vehicle weight
GRI G3 Indicators EN1, EN2 GRI Indicator A10
(Sector Supplement)

Other Textiles and other composites Duroplastic resins Elastomers Thermoplastic resins Steel and iron

Steel and iron Nonferrous metals Thermoplastic resins Elastomers * Duroplastic resins Textiles and other composites Other

50 25 8 4 4 3 6

Nonferrous metals

*

such as tyres, seals

84

3

Product responsibility

Status of objectives in the area of product responsibility *
Strategic objectives Innovative technologies Reduction of CO2 emissions as the BMW Group's contribution to reducing CO2 emissions in the ACEA fleet average (i. e. of all European carmakers) to 140 grams CO2 / km for 2008 Introduction and refinement of innovative drive concepts based on the Efficient Dynamics concept: ­ consumptionoptimised combustion engine technology with High Precision Injection in BMW 4cylinder and 6cylin der engines ­ Auto Start Stop function in largescale BMW and MINI models ­ Brake energy regeneration in largescale BMW and MINI models Hybrid drive cooperation with GM and Daimler 2008 From 1995 to 2008, the CO2 emissions of new BMW Group vehicles sold in Europe (EU15) fell by close to 27 %, which means that the BMW Group exceeded the target of the ACEA voluntary commitment. The average CO2 emis sions of newly registered BMW Group vehicles in Europe (EU27) were 156 grams CO2 / km in 2008. The BMW ActiveHybrid X6 and BMW Active Hybrid 7 will make their world debut at the 2009 IAA. In December 2008, the BMW Group launched diesel vehicles in the US and in Canada. All BMW Group vehicles can process the in creased share of biofuels according to E10 and B7. Supporting the creation of minimum standards and internationally accepted certification procedures for sustainably produced biofuels. The BMW Group successfully proved the BMW Hydrogen 7's technical maturity and the safety of the vehicle concept in customer operations and as a part of the Clean Energy Partnership (CEP). Measures Deadline Status

ongoing

Diesel vehicles in the US / Canada Promotion of biofuels

Introduction of diesel vehicles with SCR technology (Selective Catalytic Reduction) in the US / Canada Contribution to introducing increased systemcompatible amounts of biofuels in traffic Contribution to initiatives to evaluate biofuels by applying sustainability criteria in an international context

2008 ongoing

ongoing

Development of hydrogen infrastructure

Partnerships on global introduction of hydrogen as an energy source: both for technology and hydrogen infrastructure ­ Participation in demo projects to prove that hydrogen can be used safely in road traffic and that renewable energy sources can be used ­ Continued participation in the Clean Energy Partnership (CEP) project in Berlin

ongoing

Product safety Increase in vehicle safety thanks to a wide range of driver assistance systems Driver assistance systems providing high levels of safety, such as lane departure warning and Night Vision in a number of models ongoing With the launch of the new 7 Series, the BMW Group has expanded its active safety and driver assistance systems, thus making a major contribution to reducing the accident rate. Systems introduced in the new BMW 7 Series in winter 2008: Lane Departure Warning and Collision Warning, Side View, extended Night Vision system, which warns the driver of potential collisions with pedestrians, especially in the dark. No change in 2008

Product recycling Recovery of end-of-life vehicles Reduction of products' environmental impact at each stage of the life cycle Continue to refine recovery systems 2008

Environmental protection in service Establish and enhance recovery systems for endoflife parts from maintenance and repair in service garages in Western Europe and optimise recovery paths Develop methods for a streamlined life cycle assessment approach, i. e. comprehensive assessment of material groups for a more efficient and faster accounting of entire vehicles Determine the ideal product life cycle of vehicles with regard to technological, economical, ecological and legal criteria
*

2008

Completed in Italy and the Czech Republic

2009

Will probably be delayed to 2010, as data acqui sition turned out to be a demanding process Project completed in 2009

2008

Previously published in the Sustainable Value Report 2007 / 2008

85

Status of objectives in the area of product responsibility*
Strategic objectives Measures Deadline Status

Environmental protection in the service sector Inform markets about product Promote cooperation in matters of environmental protection responsibility requirements in in the retail organisations and expand the network of environ accordance with environmental mental officers in the individual sales markets laws 2008 Environmental officers appointed in all mar kets, training material developed to be sent out in the third quarter 2009. Completed in Italy and the Czech Republic

Global introduction to the dealer and service operations of one 2008 of the marketspecific shop disposal systems that are recom mended by the BMW Group as well as integration of related requirements in importer contracts
*

Previously published in the Sustainable Value Report 2007 / 2008

New objectives in the area of product responsibility
Strategic objectives Innovative technologies Compliance with the EU's CO2 emissions performance standards (average CO2 emissions of new cars sold in the EU of max. 140 grams CO2 / km) for 2015 Advancement in alternative drive technologies ­ Further development of Efficient Dynamics technologies such as the thermoelectric generator 2012 2010 or Auto Start Stop function in automatictransmission models ­ Reduction in fuel consumption of up to 20 % compared to vehicles with combustion engines by 2010 applying hybrid technology Development of a seriesproduced electric car, the socalled Megacity Vehicle, in the context of project i
first half of the next decade

Measures

Deadline

Product safety
Increase vehicle safety by integrating active and passive safety systems Traffic management and mobility research Identify strategic challenges and develop options for guaranteeing future sustainable mobility Development and implementation of measures to increase traffic efficiency Completion and publication of the study "Future of Mobility ­ Scenarios for 2030" (followup study 2010 based on "Future of Mobility ­ Scenarios for 2025") ­ Operation and assessment of the second stage of the dynamic progressive signal system in Munich ­ Development of bestpractice examples in cooperation with partners in the public sector; objectives: reduce traffic congestion, stoppages and fuel consumption by guaranteeing smoother traffic flow for all drivers Further determination of suitable components to be used as recyclates. At present, the percent age of approved plastic recyclates used currently accounts for up to 15 %. 2009 Development of preventive measures, particularly for passenger, partner and pedestrian protection 2015

Product recycling Use of recyclates in vehicles ongoing

04
in euro million
GRI G3 Indicator EN30
55 50 45 40 35 30

86

Group-wide environmental protection

04.1 Resource management and environmental protection
Ongoing expenditure on environmental protection Investment in environmental protection
in euro million
40 35 30 25 20 15

04 40.5
Figures for German production sites

05 38.9

06 43.1

07 49.7

08 50.8

04* 34.2

05 20.8

06 20.7

07 27.8

08 33.8

Information refers to German production sites of BMW AG * including BMW plant Leipzig from 2004 on.

Environmental management systems at BMW Group sites
Plant Berlin plant Dingolfing plant Eisenach plant Goodwood plant, UK Hams Hall plant, UK Landshut plant Leipzig plant Munich plant Oxford plant, UK Regensburg plant Rosslyn plant, South Africa
BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd., Shenyang, China

Environmental management system
ISO 14001/ EMAS ISO 14001/ EMAS ISO 14001/ EMAS ISO 14001 ISO 14001 ISO 14001/ EMAS ISO 14001/ EMAS ISO 14001/ EMAS ISO 14001 ISO 14001/ EMAS ISO 14001 ISO 14001 ISO 14001 ISO 14001/ EMAS ISO 14001 ISO 14001

Year of initial certification 1997 1999 2002 2003 2001 1997 2005 1997 1997 1997 1999 2006 1997 1998 1996 1997 2007 1998 /1999 2005 2008 2004 2008 2004 2004

Spartanburg plant, USA Steyr plant, Austria Swindon plant, UK Wackersdorf plant* Husqvarna Motorcycles S. r. l., Cassinetta di Biandronno, Italy Contract production Magna Steyr Fahrzeugtechnik, Austria
CKD production Cairo, Egypt CKD production Chennai, India CKD production Jakarta, Indonesia CKD production Kaliningrad, Russia CKD production Kulim, Malaysia CKD production Rayong,Thailand
*

national standard
ISO 14001/ EMAS ISO 14001 ISO 14001 ISO 14001 ISO 14001 ISO 14001 ISO 14001

Joint certificate with BMW plant Regensburg

87

Land development
2003 Land development * Size of property
*

2005 24.7 15,278,584

2007 17.6 27,505,189

2008 17.4 28,500,467

in % in m 2

21.5 15,746,127

Percentage of developed and undeveloped space; reported annually since 2007 (before: every two years). Until 2005, only production sites recorded; since 2007, entire BMW Group recorded. The figures for 2007 have been adjusted accordingly.

BMW Group input / output assessment 2008
GRI G3 Indicators EN1, EN3 ­ 4, EN8, EN16, EN20 ­ 22

Raw materials Vehicles

Operating supplies
Paints, adhesives, oils /grease

Water

Waste Wastewater

Energy
Input
Raw materials Steel Plastics Aluminium Magnesium Water Energy 1,798,000 t 365,700 t 338,700 t 5,800 t 3,682,420 m 3 4,034,442 MWh

Emissions
Output
Vehicles
BMW Group vehicles produced

1,439,918 101,685 519,353 t 497,988 t 21,365 t 2,454,760 m 3 1,183,641 t 2,827 t 491 t 428 t 10 t 27 t

Motorcycles* Waste thereof recyclable thereof non-recyclable Wastewater CO2 emissions Volatile organic compounds (VOC) NO X CO SO X Particulates, dust

*

from 2006 including BMW G 650 X assembled by Piaggio S. p. A., excluding Husqvarna Motorcycles (14,232 motorcycles)

88

4

Group-wide environmental protection

04.2 Energy consumption and emissions
BMW Group key figures include the following production sites worldwide: Dingolfing, Landshut, Leipzig, Munich, Regensburg, Rosslyn (South Africa), Spartanburg (USA), Steyr (Austria); since 2002 Oxford (UK); since 2003 Hams Hall (UK); since 2007 Berlin (brake disc production), Eisenach, Swindon (UK), Goodwood (UK), Rayong assembly plant (Thailand), Chennai assembly plant (India) and BMW Brilliance Shenyang (China).

Energy consumption in detail
in MWh
GRI G3 Indicators EN3, EN4, EN5

2004 Total energy consumption Energy consumed per vehicle produced Electricity (external source) Electricity (produced inhouse) Community heating Share of electricity (external source) from renewable energy sources in %* Fossil fuels Fuel oil ** Natural gas Coal Mineral oil Nonfossil fuels Biogas (landfill gas) Regenerative fuels Solar energy (photovoltaics)
* **

2005 3,861,253 2.94 1,671,928 125,229 180,403

2006 3,959,908 2.90 1,667,122 125,414 295,245

2007 4,283,922 2.78 1,853,961 125,182 328,998

2008 4,034,442 2.80 1,700,828 136,963 320,645

3,672,212 2.94 1,586,457 127,981 187,418

14.40 %

14.85 %

17,008 1,881,329 0 0

14,021 1,994,901 0 0

14,364 1,983,177 0 0

56,012 1,722,337 0 0

67,949 1,601,342 0 0

322,610

343,675

4

4

Conservative calculation based on countryspecific shares 2007 figure adjusted. The values increased due to the fact that the data sources were expanded in 2007 from ten to 17 locations.

Energy consumed per vehicle produced
in MWh / vehicle
GRI G3 Indicator EN3
(chart on the left)

CO2 emissions per vehicle produced
in t / vehicle
1.05 1.00 0.95 0.90 0.85 0.80

3.10 3.00 2.90 2.80 2.70 2.60

GRI G3 Indicators EN16, EN18
(chart on the right)

04 2.94
*

05 2.94

06 2.90

07 * 2.78

08 2.80
* **

04 0.94

05 * 0.99

06 0.94

07 ** 0.84

08 0.82

Basis for data expanded in 2007 from ten to 17 locations.

The increase is attributable to a change in the energy mix. Basis for data expanded in 2007 from ten to 17 locations.

89

Emissions
in t
GRI G3 Indicators EN16, EN18, EN20

2004 Total CO2 emissions* thereof CO2 direct ** thereof CO2 indirect *** Total CO2 emissions per vehicle produced Nitrogen oxide (NOx) Particulates, dust **** Sulphur dioxide (SO2) Carbon monoxide (CO) Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Volatile organic compounds (VOC) per vehicle produced in t in t in t in t / vehicle in t in t in t in t in t in kg / vehicle 0.94 559 43 10 399 2,817 2.26 1,169,786

2005 1,304,971 408,034 896,938 0.99 546 35 8 397 2,726 2.07

2006 1,280,639 349,927 930,711 0.94 586 35 9 561 2,783 2.04

2007 1,298,863 354,617 944,246 0.84 756 38 10 608 3,634 2.36

2008 1,183,641 308,605 875,036 0.82 491 27 10 428 2,827 1.96

According to the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol, other emissions in CO2 equivalents (e. g. CH4 , N2O, SF6 , PFCs, HFCs) account for < 1 % of total CO2 equivalent emissions and are thus not reported. * including CO2 emissions from external power generation ** Emissions from BMW Group sources that arise from generating own energy from fuels (e. g. combined heat and power generation) *** Emissions from external sources (e. g. energy providers). Indirect emissions arise due to the generation of energy, heat or steam, which are provided to the BMW Group. **** Calculated based on the VDA's emissions factors, including dust from external power generation.

Number of CO2 emissions allowances allocated by the EU Emissions Trading System
in t
300,000 250,000 200,000 150,000 100,000 50,000

CO2 emissions of locations participating in the EU Emissions Trading System
in t
300,000 250,000 200,000 150,000 100,000 50,000

05

06

07

08

05

06

07

08

216,741 216,741 216,741 267,789
The rise in the number of emissions allowances from 2007 to 2008 is due to the change in the application process from the first period (2005 ­ 2007) to the second (2008 ­ 2012) period.

211,658 206,179 185,284 132,009

90

4

Group-wide environmental protection

Volatile organic compounds (VOC) per vehicle produced
in kg / vehicle
GRI G3 Indicator EN20
2.50 2.25 2.00 1.75 1.50 1.25

04 2.26
*

05 2.07

06 2.04

07 * 2.36

08 1.96

Basis for data expanded in 2007 from ten to 17 locations.

BMW Group energy strategy
Efficiency enhancements

Planning and technologies

Innovative purchasing processes

Procurement
Use of renewable energy sources

Operations
Demand-oriented consumption

Employees
Mindset and behaviour

91

04.3 Materials use and waste management
BMW Group key figures include the following production sites worldwide: Dingolfing, Landshut, Leipzig, Munich, Regensburg, Rosslyn (South Africa), Spartanburg (USA), Steyr (Austria); since 2002 Oxford (UK); since 2003 Hams Hall (UK); since 2007 Berlin (brake disc production), Eisenach, Swindon (UK), Goodwood (UK), Rayong assembly plant (Thailand), Chennai assembly plant (India) and BMW Brilliance Shenyang (China).

Amount of raw materials used
in t
GRI G3 Indicator EN1

2007 Steel Plastics Aluminium Magnesium 1,890,650 371,000 342,300 6,000

2008 1,798,000 365,700 338,700 5,800

Waste for disposal per vehicle produced
in kg / vehicle
GRI G3 Indicator EN22
375 350 325 300 275 250

Waste for disposal per vehicle produced *
in kg / vehicle
17.5 15.0 12.5 10.0 7.5 5.0

04 318

05 346

06 344

07 376

08 361
*

07 16.17

08 14.84

"Waste for disposal per vehicle produced" became a performance indicator in 2007 and has been reported since then.

Waste
GRI G3 Indicator EN22

2004 Total waste Total waste per vehicle produced Materials for recycling Scrap Waste for disposal Waste for disposal per vehicle produced *
* The

2005 454,821 346 438,436 366,347 16,385

2006 469,691 344 450,165 383,301 19,526

2007 580,010 376 555,087 408,755 24,923 16.17

2008 519,353 361 497,988 433,580 21,365 14.84

in t in kg / vehicle in t in t in t in kg / vehicle

397,151 318 375,924 344,746 21,227

key performance indicator "Waste for disposal per vehicle produced" has been reported as a control parameter since 2007.

92

4

Group-wide environmental protection

04.4 Water and wastewater
Water consumption* per vehicle produced
in m 3 / vehicle
GRI G3 Indicator EN8
(chart on the left)

Process wastewater per vehicle produced
in m 3 / vehicle
1.00 0.90 0.80 0.70 0.60 0.50

3.00 2.90 2.80 2.70 2.60 2.50

GRI G3 Indicator EN21
(chart on the right)

04 3.03
*

05 2.60

06 2.56

07 2.61

08 2.56

04 0.83

05 0.76

06 0.67

07 * 0.64

08 0.64

The water consumption includes the process water input for the production as well as the general water consumption, e. g. for sanitation facilities.

Process wastewater parameters refer to wastewater from production activities. * Basis for data expanded in 2007 from ten to 17 locations.

Water *
in m 3
GRI G3 Indicator EN8

2004 Water consumption
*

2005 3,417,341

2006 3,500,197

2007 4,017,541

2008 3,682,420

3,789,703

The water consumption includes the process water input for the production as well as the general water consumption, e. g. for sanitation facilities.

Wastewater*
GRI G3 Indicator EN21

2004 Total wastewater Process wastewater Process wastewater per vehicle produced Total heavy metals and heavy metal compounds
CSB ** AOX ***
*

2005 2,139,322 1,000,938 0.76 239

2006 2,271,729 911,386 0.67 354

2007 2,649,640 992,845 0.64 370 1,209,741 95

2008 2,454,760 924,558 0.64 279 1,210,919 80

in m3 in m3 in m3 / vehicle in kg in kg in kg

2,239,646 1,041,526 0.83 439

The key performance indicator "Process wastewater" is measured by the wastewater treatment in BMW Group plants. Together with the wastewater from sanitary facilities at the plants, this is the figure for total wastewater. Due to factors such as evaporation, the water input does not correspond to total wastewater. CSB: chemical oxygen demand *** AOX: absorbable organic halides in water
**

93

04.5 Efficient transport logistics
Share of vehicles shipped by rail from BMW Group plants*
in %
GRI G3 Indicator EN29 GRI Indicator A9
(Sector Supplement) (chart on the left)

Share of vehicles delivered without surface protection*
in %
90 75 60 45 30 15

70 60 50 40 30 20 10

GRI G3 Indicator EN27
(chart on the right)

04 56.6

05 54.1

06 55.4

07 54.8

08 50.3

04 26.7

05 42.5

06 53.4

07 72.4

08 81.6

Due to volume shifts to markets that cannot be supplied by rail, the share of rail traffic decreased slightly from 2007 to 2008 * excluding RollsRoyce automobiles

Carriers and CO2 emissions*
GRI G3 Indicators EN 16, EN29 GRI Indicator A9
(Sector Supplement)

Inbound (material provision of the plants in Germany, UK, South Africa, US) Transport capacity (in million tkm) CO2 emissions (in t) Outbound Transport capacity (in million tkm) CO2 emissions (in t) Total (inbound and outbound) Transport capacity (in million tkm) CO2 emissions (in t) Total (inbound and outbound) in % Sea Road Rail Air
*

2004 3,500 258,646 2004 9,241 91,794 2004 12,741 350,440 2004 tkm 79.0 14.7 6.1 0.2 CO2 12.5 74.7 6.8 6.0 tkm 77.6 15.1 7.1 0.2

2005 3,637 257,419 2005 10,025 101,519 2005 13,662 358,938 2005 CO2 12.9 71.1 8.3 7.7 tkm 76.9 15.7 7.2 0.2

2006 3,710 248,312 2006 10,005 101,780 2006 13,715 350,092 2006 CO2 13.1 73.3 8.4 5.2 tkm 76.8 16.1 6.9 0.2

2007 3,927 285,283 2007 12,766 142,228 2007 16,693 427,511 2007 CO2 13.1 72.8 7.9 6.2 tkm 79.1 14.5 6.3 0.1

2008 3,586 232,818 2008 12,163 126,712 2008 15,749 359,530 2008 CO2 15.1 71.9 7.9 5.1

Figures refer to BMW and MINI, excluding RollsRoyce automobiles. Conversion factor for CO2 emissions according to Tremod.

94

4

Group-wide environmental protection

Means of transport used by BMW Group employees and indirect CO2 emissions from employees' commuter traffic
GRI G3 Indicators EN7, EN17, EN29 GRI Indicator A9
(Sector Supplement)

2007 * in % Cars Public transport Plant bus Bicycle / on foot Total 47 10 38 5 100 in t CO2 52,360 2,860 21,180 0 76,400 in % 43 17 37 3 100

2008 ** in t CO2 46,086 5,113 14,793 0 65,992

Calculation basis for 2007 was only employees' journeys to work, not from work. 2008 figures are based on journeys to and from work. Furthermore, updated consumption figures for vehicles were used. Excluding data from the Leipzig plant. * Research and Innovation Centre Munich as well as plants in Munich, Dingolfing, Regensburg and Leipzig. Corresponds to 59 % of BMW Group employees. ** Research and Innovation Centre Munich as well as plants in Munich, Dingolfing and Regensburg. Corresponds to 59 % of BMW Group employees.

Status of objectives in the area of Group-wide environmental protection*
Strategic objectives Measures Deadline Status

Environmental protection management Environmental management Further development of the central environ mental strategy for the entire BMW Group Definition of breakthrough goal of a 30 % reduction in energy consumption as well as VOC, water, process wastewater and waste per vehicle produced between 2006 and 2012 2008 2012 Environmental strategy integrated into the revised sustainability strategy, adopted in July 2009. The following developments were achieved from 2007 to 2008: ­ Energy consumption: rise by 0.7 %, from 2.78 to 2.80 MWh / vehicle ­ VOC emissions: reduction by 17.0 %, from 2.36 to 1.96 kg / vehicle ­ Water consumption: reduction by 1.9 %, from 2.61 to 2.56 m3 / vehicle ­ Process wastewater: no change from 2007 level (0.64 m3 / vehicle) ­ Waste: reduction by 4.0 %, from 376 to 361 kg / vehicle The energy efficiency index shows that overall resource efficiency enhancements are in the agreed target range. From 2007 to 2008, energy consumption per vehicle produced increased slightly due to the drop in automotive production volumes, from 2.78 to 2.80 MWh. Total energy consumption has decreased by 1.1 million MWh.

Energy consumption and emissions Implementation of the energy Reduction in relative energy consumption strategy, reduction in energy per vehicle in 2008 by about 5 % ­ by further optimising the operation of consumption buildings and production facilities (combined heat and power generation, optimised control of ventilation units) ­ by increasing the implementation of innovative alternative concepts for energy generation Conservation of resources Introduction of waste management worldwide Efficient transport logistics Reduction in environmental impact of surface protection materials for new vehicle transport Conversion of vehicle distribution to exclude surface protection (by the start of 2008, 95 % of BMW Group vehicles were to be delivered without extra surface protection) 2008 Last wax coating facility in the BMW Group production network switched off. The goal of delivering 95 % of vehicles without surface protection by early 2008 had to be revised downwards due to delivery problems for the closed wagons needed for transportation. In 2008, 82 % of new cars were delivered without surface protection. Introduction of ABIS at the plants in Goodwood (UK), Rayong (Thailand) and Chennai (India) 2008 The Chennai plant introduced the waste information system ABIS in 2008. 2008

*

Previously published in the Sustainable Value Report 2007 / 2008

95

New objectives in the area of Group-wide environmental protection
Strategic objectives Measures Deadline

Resource and environmental protection management Breakthrough goal of a 30 % reduction in energy consumption as well as VOC, water, process wastewater and waste per vehicle produced between 2006 and 2012 (5 % per year) ­ Further measures to raise employee awareness of energy saving potential ­ Integration of findings from the pilot project on consumption structures and energy flows in Munich in 2008 into all German locations ­ Full implementation of odourfree foundry at the Landshut plant by 2010 with the subsequent further reduction in VOC emissions ­ Decrease in potable water consumption as a result of recycling in production and the use of other water categories such as nearsurface ground water Evaluate and promote the option of using wind and geothermal power at various locations Integrate the locations Goodwood and Rayong into the BMW Group waste information system 2010 2009 / 2010 2010
ongoing

Increased application of renewable energies Waste management Efficient transport logistics Increase percentage of lowemissions transport usage Optimisation of transport volumes

2010 2011 2011 2009 2009

Nature conservation and biodiversity Develop a biodiversity indicator for the entire BMW Group Development of supply concepts from global procurement sources to BMW Group production sites under consideration of sustainable, environmentallyfriendly transport concepts Development of concepts on traffic reduction (capacity utilisation) and traffic relocation to more environ mentallyfriendly carriers

05
05.1 Attractive employer
BMW Group Employees at end of year *
GRI G3 Indicator LA1
120,000 110,000 100,000 90,000 80,000 70,000

96

Employees

The reduction in headcount at BMW Group by 7.0 % compared with the previous year is primarily due to the implementation of the announced staff re ductions as well as the sale of noncore activities of the company in 2008.

04

05

06

07

08

105,972 105,798 106,575 107,539 100,041
*

Figures exclude suspended contracts of employment, employees in the nonwork phases of preretirement parttime arrangements and low income earners.

BMW Group Employees
GRI G3 Indicator LA1

2004 Employees at end of year * thereof in Germany thereof abroad Workforce according to segment Automobiles Motorcycles Financial Services Other Apprentices
* **

2005 105,798 80,020 25,778 98,260 2,838 3,093 1,607 4,464

2006 106,575 79,896 26,679 98,505 2,782 3,478 1,810 4,359

2007 107,539 80,128 27,411 98,548 2,989 4,097 1,905 4,281

2008 100,041 73,916 26,125 92,924 2,917 4,077 123 ** 4,102

105,972 80,005 25,967 99,043 2,918 2,841 1,170 4,464

Figures exclude suspended contracts of employment, employees in the nonwork phases of preretirement parttime arrangements and low income earners. Reduction in staff numbers due to the sale of the majority interest in the IT consulting company Cirquent

05.2 Perfect conditions for the number one success factor
BMW Group Apprentices at 31 December
GRI G3 Indicator LA1
5,000 4,500 4,000 3,500 3,000 2,500

04 4,464

05 4,464

06 4,359

07 4,281

08 4,102

97

Average days of further training per BMW Group employee
GRI G3 Indicator LA10
(chart on the left)

Investment in further education and training* at BMW Group
in euro million
250 225 200 175 150 125

2.6 2.4 2.2 2.0 1.8 1.6

04 2.4

05 1.8

06 1.8

07 1.9

08 1.6
*

04 232

05 194

06 184

07 181

08 154

BMW Group investments are dependent upon the current need for further education and training, which may lead to fluctuations compared yearonyear.

Share of women in the total workforce of BMW AG
in %
GRI G3 Indicator LA13
15 14 13 12 11 10

Share of women in management positions at BMW AG
in %
9 8 7 6 5 4

04 13.2

05 13.4

06 13.4

07 13.5

08 13.2

04 6.6

05 6.9

06 7.0

07 7.4

08 7.8

Alternative work forms at BMW AG
GRI G3 Indicator LA1

2004 Parttime employees at BMW AG in % of total number of employees* Teleworking positions at BMW AG in % of total number of employees* Sabbaticals in % of total number of employees*
*

2005 2,909 4.2 4,276 6.2 1,559 2.2

2006 3,070 4.4 4,836 7.0 1,401 2.0

2007 3,068 4.5 6,149 8.9 1,033 1.5

2008 2,778 4.2 7,702 11.7 1,366 2.1

2,800 4.0 3,936 5.6 915 1.3

Employees with permanent contracts

98

5

Employees

Share of employees with disabilities at BMW AG
in %
GRI G3 Indicator LA13
6 5 4 3 2 1

04 3.8

05 4.0

06 4.2

07 3.9

08 4.6

Accident frequency at BMW Group
per one million hours worked
GRI G3 Indicator LA7
4.5 4.0 3.5 3.0 2.5 2.0

Shows the number of reportable industrial accidents per one million hours worked. Definition of industrial accident in accordance with the German Social Code: Industrial accidents are accidents involving insured individuals and resulting from the pursuit of their insured activity on the industrial site. Accidents are events of limited duration that impact the body externally, leading to damage to health or death.

04 3.8

05 3.3

06 3.3

07 3.1

08 2.7

Occupational safety at BMW Group
GRI G3 Indicators LA7, LA8

2004 Total accidents Accident frequency * Fatal accidents
Only refers to BMW AG

2005 413 3.3 1

2006 409 3.3 0

2007 380 3.1 0

2008 346 2.7 0

Quantity Quantity

479 3.8 0

Courses on occupational safety

Occupational safety courses Risk assessments**
* **

Quantity Quantity

2,001 5,625

1,982 3,044

1,799 1,426

1,766 2,293

2,239 1,908

Number of notifiable industrial accidents per one million hours worked. Assessment of workplaces and subprocesses with regard to possible ergonomic and health strains (ABATECH method).

99

Occupational health and safety management systems at BMW Group sites
GRI G3 Indicator LA8

Site Berlin plant Dingolfing plant Eisenach plant Goodwood plant, UK Hams Hall plant, UK Landshut plant Leipzig plant Munich plant Oxford plant, UK Regensburg plant Rosslyn plant, South Africa

Occupational health and safety management system
OHSAS 18001 OHRIS * OHRIS OHSAS 18001 HS(G) 65**** OHRIS * OHRIS * OHSAS 18001 OHRIS * OHSAS 18001 OHRIS * OHSAS 18001 OHSAS 18001 OHSAS 18001 OHRIS * OHSAS 18001 OHRIS *

Year of certification 2004 2003 not certified ** planned 2009 /10*** 2001 2003 2006 (OHSAS 2003) 2003 2003 planned 2009 /10*** 2001 1999 2008 planned 2009 /10*** planned 2009 /10*** planned 2009 /10*** 2001 2007 2005 2005 end of 2008 introduced 1999 introduced planned 2009 /10***

BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd., Shenyang, China

Spartanburg plant, USA Steyr plant, Austria Swindon plant, UK Wackersdorf plant ***** Husqvarna Motorcycles S. r. l., Cassinetta di Biandronno, Italy Contract production Magna Steyr Fahrzeugtechnik, Austria
CKD production Cairo, Egypt CKD production Chennai, India CKD production Jakarta, Indonesia CKD production Kaliningrad, Russia CKD production Kulim, Malaysia CKD production Rayong,Thailand
*

national standard
OHSAS 18001 OHSAS 18001 OHSAS 18001

national standard national standard national standard
OHSAS 18001

OHRIS includes OHSAS OHRIS is used as occupational safety management system; however, the site is not certified. Certification offers are available and expenditure planned for 2010. **** HS(G) 65, successful health and safety management, British government guideline on safety at the workplace ***** jointly certified with BMW Regensburg plant
** ***

100

5

Employees

05.3 Performance and reward
BMW Group personnel costs per employee*
in euros
GRI G3 Indicator EC1
(chart on the left)

Profit-sharing scheme at BMW AG by year of payment *
in % of monthly salary
200 175 150 125 100 75

80,000 75,000 70,000 65,000 60,000 55,000

04 73,241
*

05 75,238

06 76,621

07

08

05 155.9
*

06 156.8

07 156.3

08 156.3

09 none

76,704 75,612

Figures exclude suspended contracts of employment, employees in the nonwork phases of preretirement parttime arrangements and low income earners.

New employees receive full bonuses after four years of employment. Due to the significant decline in profit, in 2009, BMW AG employees did not receive any bonuses for 2008.

05.4 Shaping change flexibly
Employee fluctuation ratio BMW AG*
as a percentage of the workforce
GRI G3 Indicator LA2
6 5 4 3 2 1

04 1.91
* **

05 2.45

06 2.68

07 2.66

08 5.85**

Number of employees on unlimited employment contracts leaving the company after implementation of previously reported measures to reduce the size of the workforce

05.5 Cooperation and appreciation
Savings for BMW Group resulting from suggestions for improvement
in euro thousand
120,000 100,000 80,000 60,000 40,000 20,000

04 67,855

05 92,374

06 63,045

07

08

67,202 60,914

101

Status of human resource objectives*
Strategic objectives Measures Deadline Status

Attractive employer (internal and external image) Promote personal responsibility of apprentices with new work structures Joining BMW Group Balanced proportion of female apprentices in technical professions and integration into the hiring departments Lifelong learning Develop the training academies Establishment of a training centre for aftersales in China Deepened and expanded implementation of essential elements of long-term HP policy (LPP) worldwide Creating the conditions for the specific stages of life and in dividual safeguarding of professional and private obligations and interests of the employees within the longterm human resources policy. Further development of the human resources systems on the basis of the longterm human resources policy worldwide Healthy employees Occupational safety Introduction of a new ITsupported accident management system in conjunction with BMW Group Health Service
HIV retesting campaign with the slogan "Vision of Life" at BMW South Africa

Further development of the Junior Company concept and rollout at further sites; at Oxford site by 2008

2008

Completed: Independent Junior Company at the Oxford site; regular exchange between Steyr and Dingolfing 20 % of apprentices in technical professions are female (as of 2008).

Further development of the concept of hiring after apprentice ship is completed

ongoing

2009 ongoing

Opened in May 2009 In the course of the strategic realignment of the company, the human resources strategy was derived and the basic principles were de fined as the foundation for cooperation. Human resources restructuring in 2009

ongoing

2007

The new system was seamlessly incorporated into the former system, the handling is im proved with ongoing release. A second retest was completed at BMW South Africa. 86 % of employees participated by the end of 2008.

Combating HIV / Aids

2008

*

Previously published in the Sustainable Value Report 2007 / 2008

New objectives in the area of human resources
Strategic objectives Measures Deadline

Ideal conditions for the most important success factor Employee recruitment and training Adaptation of the apprenticeship to meet new technical requirements Further education and lifelong learning Maintenance and target-oriented further development of skills in the company Diversity and equal opportunities Promote diversity at the company (also other aspects of diversity apart from the advancement of women) Occupational health and safety protection and promotion Company-wide coverage by occupational safety management systems Expand the apprenticeship to include future technologies (keyword: project i) by 2010

­ Establish systematic competence management ­ Redesign executive qualification scheme ­ Develop strategic fields of action and targets in the area of diversity ­ Raise awareness at the company for diversity issues

from 2009 2009 2010 2010

Introduce occupational safety management systems at all BMW Group sites: ­ Introduce occupational safety management systems in accordance with OHSAS at British, US and Thai sites ­ Certification of Steyr plant according to OHRIS

2010 2010 2010 2009 2010

Shaping change flexibly ­ demographic change Increase and maintenance of the productivity ­ Implement the new partial retirement regulation and employability of BMW Group employees and ­ Develop standards for the creation of ageappropriate work systems in production enabling of flexible, demand-oriented retirement Cooperation and appreciation ­ leadership Further development of the leadership model Measure excellent leadership by means of High Performance Organization Index 2010

06
BMW Group donations worldwide in 2008*
in %, total sum: 5,706,696 euros
GRI G3 Indicators EC1, SO6 Sports Environment / Sustainability Politics Culture

102

Society

Society / Community Science
Society / Community

45 32 10 10 2 1

Culture Politics Environment / Sustainability Sports

Science

*

The sum indicated here does not include either causerelated marketing or sponsorship and does not contain the projects and activities carried out in the context of the company's social and cultural commitment.

Status of objectives in the area of society*
Strategic objectives Road safety projects Internationalisation Further internationalisation of road safety projects at BMW Group sites 2009 In April 2009, BMW's children's road safety training celebrated its fifth anniversary at the Beijing Children's Palace. ­ Implemented in the Junior Campus at BMW Welt and the educational programme at the BMW Museum as well as in the updated version of "H2 ­ Mobility of the Future" ­ Revision of the concept of the Award for Intercultural Commitment Financial aid for the "Baan Gerda" Children's Village for HIVinfected orphans in Thailand. Voluntary HIV / Aids testing in China Several dealerships have adopted the programme, in full or in part. The Dealer HIV / Aids project in South Africa lays the foundation for HIV programmes in the vicinity of BMW dealerships through social network mapping. Measures Deadline Status

Education and intercultural understanding Focus on education projects Increased integration of BMW Group competences into educational projects in the field of natural sciences 2008

HIV/Aids commitment in society

Expansion of activities to fight HIV / Aids to other sites

Transfer the programme from South Africa, e. g. to China, Russia and Thailand Expand HIV / Aids programme from BMW South Africa to include local dealerships

ongoing

2011

*

Previously published in the Sustainable Value Report 2007 / 2008

103

New objectives in the area of society
Strategic objectives Social commitment Further development of communities at the international locations using BMW Group core competences Road safety projects Internationalisation Education and intercultural understanding Implementation of the new concept for the BMW Group Award for Intercultural Engagement Foundations Expansion of project work and transfer of experiences to other areas in need of social action Eberhard von Kuenheim Foundation Focus on new concepts for education management Constructive integration of community involvement into specific projects
BMW Foundation Herbert Quandt Development and advancement of new interdisciplinary and innovative solutions for sociopolitical problems (integration, education, social cohesion, globalisation, etc.)

Measures

Deadline

Improve educational opportunities in the communities at the Indian plant in Chennai

2010

International road safety and mobility portal for road users of all ages Combine the company's experience and its awardwinning projects with a corporate volunteering programme

2010 / 2011 2009 / 2010

2009 / 2010

2009

More intensive communication of key messages to the target group (young managers from all indus tries) with the aim of entering into strategic, interdisciplinary collaborations with innovative partners and making a lasting contribution for the benefit of all members of society

2009

104

GRI Index
This index identifies how the GRI indicators (G3) were taken into account in this Sustainable Value Report.*

Profile 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the Board of Management 1.2 Impacts of operational activity, key risks and opportunities 2. Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation 2.2 Primary brands, products and services 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation (www.bmwgroup.com) 2.4 Location of organisation's headquarters 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates (www.bmwgroup.com/locations) 2.6 Ownership structure and legal form 2.7 Markets served 2.8 Scale of the organisation 2.9 Significant changes regarding size, structure or ownership 2.10 Awards (www.bmwgroup.com/responsibility)

Degree of performance **

Reference

02 ­ 03 07 ­ 10, 18 ­ 22, 24 ­ 26, 38 ­ 39, 48 ­ 49, 60 ­ 61, AR (pp. 62 ­ 67), C 04 04 04, AR (pp. 148 ­ 149, 152 ­ 153) 04 04, AR (pp. 152 ­ 153) 04, AR (pp. 45 ­ 46) 75, AR (pp. 152 ­ 153) 04, 74, AR (pp. 06 ­ 07, 150 ­ 151) C 16 Cover in the front Cover in the front Cover in the front, C 111 Cover in the front Cover in the front Cover in the front Cover in the front C C Cover in the front 104 ­ 106 Cover in the front 10 ­ 11, 22, 28, AR (pp. 134 ­ 147), C AR (pp. 134 ­ 147) AR (pp. 134 ­ 137) 22, 58, AR (pp. 09 ­ 13, 138) 09, 56, AR (pp. 141 ­ 146) 12, 22, AR (p. 126) 02 ­ 03, 8 ­ 11, AR (pp. 134 ­ 135), C 14, 20, 22, 40, 50, C 09 ­ 11, 22, C 08 ­ 11 09 ­ 10, 22, 26 ­ 28, 32 ­ 33, 35, 40 ­ 41, C 11, 13, 107 12 ­ 13 12 ­ 13 Cover in the front, 12 ­ 13, C Cover in the front, 12 ­ 13 Cover in the front, 12 ­ 13, C Reference

3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 3.3 Reporting cycle 3.4 Contact persons for questions regarding the report 3.5 Process for defining report content 3.6 Boundary of the report 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations 3.10 Restatements of information 3.11 Changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods 3.12 GRI Content Index 3.13 External assurance for the report 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation 4.2 Independence of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board 4.3 Number of independent members in the highest governance body 4.4 Co-determination right of employees and shareholders 4.5 Linkage between executive compensation and achievement of sustainability goals 4.6 Process in place to avoid conflicts of interest 4.7 Qualifications and expertise of the highest governance body regarding economic, environmental and social topics 4.8 Values, mission statements, principles and codes of conduct of the organisation relevant to sustainability (www.bmwgroup.com/guidelines) 4.9 Oversight of the sustainability performance and relevant risks by the Board of Management 4.10 Assessment of the performance of the Board of Management regarding sustainability 4.11 Precautionary approach 4.12 4.13 4.14 4.15 4.16 4.17 Support for external economic, environmental and social activities Memberships in associations and advocacy organisations Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Approaches to stakeholder engagement (www.bmwgroup.com/responsibility) Key stakeholder topics Degree of performance **

Indicator Economic Management approach EC1 Direct economic value generated EC2 EC3 EC4 Financial implications due to climate change Organisation's defined benefit plan obligations Significant financial assistance received from government

18 ­ 22, 73 ­ 77 74, 76 ­77, 100, 102, AR (pp. 06 ­ 07, 56), C 26 ­ 28, 39, 42 ­ 43, C 74, AR (pp. 52 ­ 53, 66, 105 ­ 109) 77, AR (p. 99)

105

Indicator EC5 EC6 EC7 EC8 EC9 Range of ratios of standard entry level compared to local minimum wage Policy, practices and proportion of locally based suppliers Procedures for local hiring and local senior management Impact of infrastructure investments and services Indirect economic impacts (www.bmwgroup.com/sustainability, archive / Sustainable Value Report 2007 / 2008)

Degree of performance **

Reference 56, C 14, 72, AR (p. 39), C 53, C 61 ­ 65, 67, C 21, 75

Environment Management approach (Environmental statement of the plants www.bmwgroup.com/sustainability/publications) EN1 Materials used by weight or volume EN2 Percentage of used materials that are recycled materials EN3 Direct energy consumption EN4 Indirect energy consumption EN5 Energy savings EN6 Energyefficient products and services EN7 Reduction of indirect energy consumption EN8 Total water withdrawal EN9 Water sources affected by withdrawal of water EN10 Percentage of water recycled and reused EN11 Production plants in protected areas (www.bmwusfactory.com) EN12 Significant impacts upon biodiversity in protected areas EN13 Habitats protected and restored (www.bmwgroup.com/responsibility as well as Sustainable Value Report 2007 / 2008 page 47) EN14 Strategies for managing impacts on biodiversity EN15 Endangered species in areas affected by operations of the organisation EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions EN17 Other relevant greenhouse gas emissions EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances EN20 NOX , SO X and other significant emissions EN21 Total water discharge EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method EN23 Significant spills EN24 Crossborder transport or treatment of hazardous waste EN25 Areas impacted by the organisation's discharges of water and runoff EN26 Initiatives to mitigate harmful environmental impacts of products EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category EN28 Significant fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products, goods, materials and members of the workforce EN30 Environmental protection expenditures and investments Employees Management approach LA1 Breakdown of workforce by employment type, contract and region LA2 Number and rate of employee turnover LA3 Benefits provided only to fulltime employees LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in occupational health and safety committees LA7 Injuries, occupational diseases, working days lost, absentee rate and work-related fatalities LA8 Preventive healthcare, counselling and training regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in agreements with trade unions LA10 Education and further training measures LA11 Skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees LA12 Employee performance and career development reviews
* ** ***

11, 38 ­ 46, 86 ­ 95 44, 83, 91 35, 83, C 88 88 39, 42 ­ 43, 88 24 ­ 31, 78 ­ 85 46, 94 45, 92, C C 45 C 41, C 41, C 39, 41, 95, C C 42 ­ 43, 46, 88 ­ 89, 93, C 46, 94 38 ­ 43, 46, 88 ­ 89, 93 ­ 94 C 89 ­ 90 45, 92, C 39, 44, 91 C C 45, C 26 ­ 31, 34 ­ 35, 82, C 44, 46, 93 C 46, 93 ­ 94 40 ­ 41, 86 11, 14 ­ 15, 48 ­ 58, 96 ­ 101 96 ­ 97 21, 57, 100, C 53, C 58, C C C 49, 98, C 54 ­ 55, 98 ­ 99 C 51 ­ 52, 97, C 50 ­ 52 56, 58, C

AR C

The GRI Index with comments on individual indicators is available on the Internet at www.bmwgroup.com/sustainability This indicator is answered completely and supported with information. GRI Sector Supplement Automotive Sector, Pilot Version 1.0, 2004 Refers to the BMW Group Annual Report 2008, available online at www.bmwgroup.com/ir Comments on this indicator may be found in the GRI Index online at www.bmwgroup.com/sustainability

All main indicators are printed in bold.

106

Indicator LA13 LA14 Diversity in senior management and employee structure Ratio of basic salary of male and female employees

Degree of performance **

Reference 53, 97 ­ 98, C 56, C 07, 11, 14 ­ 15, 50, 58, 73 14 ­ 15, C 14 ­ 15 14 ­ 15, C C 15, 50, 58, C 14 ­ 15, 50 14 ­ 15, 50 C C

Human Rights Management approach HR1 Investment agreements that include human rights clauses HR2 Percentage of suppliers that have undergone screening on human rights HR3 Employee training on human rights HR4 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken HR5 Operations with significant risk concerning the freedom of association and collective bargaining HR6 Operations with significant risk for incidents of child labour HR7 Operations with significant risk for incidents of forced and compulsory labour HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained on aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations HR9 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people Society Management approach (www.bmwgroup.com/responsibility) SO1 SO2 SO3 SO4 SO5 SO6 SO7 SO8 Impacts of operations on local communities and regions (Sustainable Value Report 2007 / 2008, pp. 22 ­ 23) Number of business units analysed for corruption-related risks Employee training regarding anti-corruption Anti-corruption measures Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying (www.bmwgroup.com) Financial and inkind contributions to political parties and politicians Number of legal actions for anticompetitive behaviour Number of fines for non-compliance with laws

06 ­ 11, 18 ­ 19, 22, 50, 60 ­ 62, 73, 77, 102 ­ 103 21 18 ­ 22, AR (pp. 140 ­ 141) 18 ­ 22 19, 22, AR (pp. 140 ­ 141) 30 ­ 31, 61, 67, 83, C 61, 102, C AR (pp. 65 ­ 66) AR (pp. 65 ­ 66) 24 ­ 36, 78 ­ 85 26, 32 ­ 33, 35 C 26 ­ 33, 35 C 36 C C C
AR (pp. 65 ­ 66)

Product Responsibility Management approach PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed PR2 Incidents of noncompliance with regulations concerning health and of safety of products PR3 Principles and measures related to product and service information and labelling PR4 Incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product information and labelling PR5 Customer satisfaction PR6 Programmes for compliance with laws, standards and voluntary codes related to marketing communications PR7 Incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes related to marketing communications PR8 Number of substantiated customer data protection complaints PR9 Significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products Sector Supplement*** A1 Stipulated work hours per week and average hours worked overtime in production A2 Percentage of employees not managed with overtime compensation schemes A3 Percentage of major Tier 1 supplier facilities with independent trade union organisations A4 Numbers of vehicles sold, broken down by type, fuels, power train technologies and region A5 Compliance of vehicles sold with the respective existing and next defined emissions standards A6 Average fuel economy by type of vehicle A7 Average carbon dioxide emissions by type of vehicle A8 Compliance of vehicles sold with the respective existing and next defined noise standard A9 EN29 ­ relevant indicator for automotive sector A10 Weight of vehicle and percentage breakdown of generic, recyclate and renewable material of a bestselling vehicle
The GRI Index with comments on individual indicators is available on the Internet at www.bmwgroup.com/sustainability This indicator is answered completely and supported with information. GRI Sector Supplement Automotive Sector, Pilot Version 1.0, 2004 AR Refers to the BMW Group Annual Report 2008, available online at www.bmwgroup.com/ir C Comments on this indicator may be found in the GRI Index online at www.bmwgroup.com/sustainability All main indicators are printed in bold.
* ** ***

C C C 75, 82, AR (pp. 20 ­ 23), C 26, 28, 82 79 ­ 81 78 ­ 81 83 46, 93 ­ 94 35, 83, C

107

UN Global Compact ­ Communication on Progress (COP)

Communication on Progress (COP): implementation of UN Global Compact Principles 2009
The BMW Group has been committed to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact since July 2001, and is continuously working on integrating sustainability criteria into all corporate processes. The company actively promotes compliance with internationally adopted standards and regulations in the fields of human rights, occupational standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. The BMW Group also requires its suppliers to adhere to the same standards. This Sustainable Value Report 2008 is also the company's COP on the UN Global Compact. The following chart lists examples of established BMW Group guide lines and management systems that support compliance with the ten principles as well as progress made during the reporting period (July 2008 ­ July 2009).

Company guidelines and management systems

Substantial progress made

References

GRI (G3)

Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights
BMW Group: ­ Human Resources and Social Policies ­ Joint Declaration on Human Rights and Working Conditions Supply chain: ­ Purchasing conditions ­ Supplier management BMW Group: ­ see Principle 1 ­ Corporate Compliance System Supply chain: ­ see Principle 1 BMW Group: Joint Declaration on Human Rights and Working Conditions Supply chain: ­ Purchasing conditions ­ Supplier management BMW Group: ­ Continued development of Human Resources and Social Policies and thus also personnel work in keeping with Strategy Number ONE Supply chain: ­ Purchasing conditions revised in 2009 ­ Questionnaire for supplier selection process and selfassessment revised and supplemented with social standards criteria

07, 11, 14 ­ 15, 49 ­ 50, 53 ­ 56, 58, 73, 97 ­ 98, 101 Further documents: 1, 2

EC5, LA4 LA6 ­ 9 LA13 ­ 14 HR1 ­ 9, SO5 PR1 ­ 2, PR8

Principle 2: Make sure there is no complicity in human rights abuses see Principle 1 14 ­ 15, 22, 50, 53, 58, 77 Further documents: 1, 2 HR1 ­ 9 SO5

Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of association and recognition of the right to collective bargaining see Principle 1 14 ­ 15, 50, 58 Further documents: 1 LA4 ­ 5 HR1 ­ 3 HR5, SO5

Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour see Principle 3 see Principle 1 14 ­ 15, 50 Further documents: 1 14 ­ 15, 50 Further documents: 1 14 ­ 15, 22, 50, 53, 56, 77, 97 ­ 98, 101 Further documents: 1, 2, 3 HR1 ­ 3 HR7, SO5

Principle 5: Effective abolition of child labour see Principle 3 see Principle 1 HR1 ­ 3 HR6, SO5

Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation
BMW Group: ­ see Principle 1 ­ Diversity management ­ Legal compliance code (LCC) Supply chain: ­ see Principle 1 BMW Group: Continued development of Human Resources and Social Policies and thus also personnel work in keeping with Strategy Number ONE

EC7 LA2 LA13 ­ 14 HR1 ­ 4 SO5

Further documents: 1 Joint Declaration on Human Rights and Working Conditions at the BMW Group ­ www.bmwgroup.com/guidelines 2 Valueoriented Human Resources Policy: The 8 guidelines of the personnel policy of the BMW Group ­ www.bmwgroup.com/guidelines 3 BMW Group Legal Compliance Code ­ www.bmwgroup.com/guidelines, www.bmwgroup.com/compliance

108

Company guidelines and management systems

Substantial progress made

References

GRI (G3)

Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges
BMW Group: ­ Sustainability management ­ Environmental management in accord ance with ISO 14001 and EMAS ­ Clean Production philosophy ­ Environmental guidelines ­ Legal compliance code (LCC) ­ Life cycle assessments ­ Design for Recycling Supply chain: ­ Purchasing conditions ­ Supplier management BMW Group: ­ Determination of environmental goal: to reach a 30 % reduction in energy consumption as well as water, wastewater, waste and solvents per vehicle produced between 2006 and 2012. Initial efficiency targets with regard to these key performance indicators have been met. ­ Back in May 2008, the company was one of the first carmakers to present a virtual materials balance sheet in accordance with ISO 22628.

02 ­ 03, 07 ­ 11, 14 ­ 15, 22, 24 ­ 28, 34 ­ 35, 38 ­ 41, 73, 77 Further documents: 3, 4, 5

EC2 EN18 EN26 EN30 SO5

Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility see Principle 7
BMW Group: ­ Improving environmental protection and recycling in service ­ Companywide energy project initiated; Energy Days held at various locations Supply chain: ­ Raising suppliers' awareness of sustainability issues through the question naire; condition included that the BMW Group has the right to require suppliers to provide environmental data BMW Group: ­ Further reduction of the fleet's carbon emissions due to Efficient Dynamics (by almost 27 % from 1995 level) ­ Presentation of first seriesproduced hybrid vehicles in 2009 ­ Road test with 600 electricdrive MINI E cars as part of project i ­ Nearly 4 million kilometres driven with the hydrogen vehicle fleet (Hydrogen 7) BMW Group: ­ Introduction of the BMW Group compliance organisation for BMW AG and several German subsidiaries in 2008; international rollout since spring 2009 ­ Compliance training for 5,100 executives in 2008

07 ­ 11, 14 ­ 15, 24 ­ 31, 34 ­ 35, 38 ­ 46, 72 ­ 73, 78 ­ 85, 86 ­ 95 Further documents: 3, 4, 5

EN1 ­ 30 SO5 PR3 ­ 4

Principle 9: Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies see Principle 7 07 ­ 11, 24 ­ 31, 35, 38 ­ 46, 78 ­ 85, 86 ­ 95 Further documents: 3, 4, 5 EN2 EN5 ­ 7 EN10, EN18 EN26 ­ 27 EN30, SO5

Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery
BMW Group: ­ Legal compliance code (LCC) ­ Compliance Committee and Compliance Office established ­ Risk management

18 ­ 22, 77, Annual Report

SO2 ­ 6

Further documents: 3 BMW Group Legal Compliance Code ­ www.bmwgroup.com/guidelines, www.bmwgroup.com/compliance 4 BMW Group Efficient Dynamics strategy ­ http://www.bmwgroup.com/bmwgroup_prod/d/0_0_www_bmwgroup_com/verantwortung/umwelt/nachhaltige_mobilitaet/Alexblatt_ED_Stand_220807.pdf 5 BMW Group environmental guidelines ­ www.bmwgroup.com/guidelines

109

Index
The glossary of this report can be found at www.bmwgroup.com / glossary.

A Accident rate 63, 84 ACEA (European Automobile Manufacturers') Association 25, 29, 78, 84 Active safety 26, 32 ­ 33, 84 Alternative drive concepts 26 ­ 27, 29 ­ 30 Antidiscrimination 14, 106 ­ 107 Appreciation 29, 50, 56, 58, 100 ­ 101 arrive project 34 Attractive employer 09, 48 ­ 50, 58, 96, 101 Audit Cover, 14, 22, 40 ­ 41, 44 Awards 08, 16, 19, 25, 36, 43, 61, 64, 102 ­ 104 B Balanced Scorecard 09, 16, 50 Basic principles 08, 20, 50, 101 Bestpractice 40, 61, 67, 85 Biodiversity 39, 41, 95, 105 Biofuel 29 ­ 30, 84 BMW Foundation Herbert Quandt 62, 67, 103 Brands Cover, 02, 04, 36, 66, 104, 111 C Certification Cover, 30, 40, 84, 86, 99, 101 Challenges Cover, 02, 07, 09 ­ 10, 12 ­ 13, 15, 19, 24 ­ 25, 32 ­ 34, 39, 46, 49 ­ 50, 60 ­ 62, 67, 72, 85, 108 Clean Production 11, 14, 40 Climate protection 02, 28 ­ 30, 71 CO2 24 ­ 29, 38, 42 ­ 43, 78 ­ 81, 83 ­ 85, 87 ­ 89, 93 ­ 94, 111 CO2 emissions 24 ­ 29, 42, 78 ­ 79, 81, 84 ­ 85, 87 ­ 89, 93 ­ 94, 111 Codetermination 58, 104 Combined heat and power generation 89, 94 Commitment 02, 06, 11, 13, 25, 29 ­ 30, 34, 50, 56, 58, 60 ­ 62, 64 ­ 67, 78, 84, 102 ­ 104 Compliance 06, 18 ­ 19, 22, 26, 28, 30, 73, 77, 82, 85, 105 ­ 108 Corporate governance 06, 13, 22 Corporate strategy 06, 08, 10, 12, 18, 20, 28, 50, 62, 66 Corruption 18, 22, 77, 106 ­ 108 Customer satisfaction 24, 26, 36, 52, 106 D Data protection 106 Dealerships 04, 10, 36, 46, 51, 61, 102 Demographic change 03, 25, 48, 50, 56, 61, 101 Design for Recycling 27, 35, 108 Diesel 27, 29 ­ 30, 49 ­ 50, 53, 64, 66, 82, 84, 101 Diversity 48 ­ 50, 53, 64, 66, 101, 106 ­ 107 Donations 61 ­ 62, 66 ­ 67, 102 Dow Jones Sustainability Index 03, 07 ­ 08, 16, 21 E Eberhard von Kuenheim Foundation 62, 67, 103 ecobalance 15 Education 34, 48, 52 ­ 53, 61 ­ 65, 67, 97, 101 ­ 103, 105 Efficient Dynamics 03, 08, 12, 18, 24, 26 ­ 30, 84 ­ 85, 108 EMAS (EcoManagement and Audit Scheme) Cover, 11, 14, 40, 86, 108

Emissions performance standards 25, 28, 78, 82, 85 Emissions 09, 12 ­ 14, 24 ­ 31, 34, 39 ­ 44, 46, 78 ­ 85, 87 ­ 89, 93 ­ 95, 105 ­ 106, 108, 111 Emissions trading 43 Employees Cover, 02, 06 ­ 07, 09, 13 ­ 15, 20 ­ 22, 41 ­ 42, 46 ­ 58, 62, 64 ­ 65, 67, 70 ­ 71, 74, 76, 90, 94, 96 ­ 98, 100 ­ 101, 104 ­ 106 Employee satisfaction 49 ­ 50 Employee survey 13 Endoflife vehicles 25, 35, 84 Energy consumption 38, 41 ­ 43, 88, 94 ­ 95, 105, 108 Energy management 03, 27, 29, 42 ­ 43 Energy strategy 42, 90, 94 Environmental guidelines 40, 108 Environmental management 09, 14, 38, 40, 86, 94, 108 Environmental protection Cover, 06 ­ 07, 10 ­ 11, 14, 22, 37 ­ 38, 40 ­ 42, 70 ­ 71, 73, 85 ­ 86, 88, 90, 92, 94 ­ 95, 107 ­ 108 Equal opportunities 48, 101 Experts Cover, 12 ­ 13, 15, 26, 29, 32, 33 ­ 34, 40, 42, 44, 64 F Family 53, 55, 65 Fleet consumption Fuel consumption Further education

25, 78 08, 18, 24, 26 ­ 30, 34, 40, 85 48, 52, 97, 101

G Global Compact Cover, 02, 11, 13 ­ 14, 20, 22, 26, 34 ­ 35, 40, 50, 53, 58, 61, 107 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Cover, 104 ­ 106 H Health 48 ­ 49, 52, 54 ­ 56, 64 ­ 65, 98 ­ 99, 101, 105 ­ 106 High Precision Injection 29 ­ 30, 82, 84 HIV / Aids 11, 60 ­ 62, 65, 101 ­ 102 Human Resources and Social Policies 50, 107 Hybrid 03, 25, 28 ­ 31, 51 ­ 52, 81, 84 ­ 85, 108 Hydrogen 25, 31, 84, 108 I ifmo (Institute for Mobility Research) 25, 34 Indices 07 ­ 08, 16 International Labour Organization (ILO) 11, 14, 15, 50 Intercultural understanding 60, 62, 64, 102 ­ 103 Investment 12 ­ 13, 16, 19, 40, 43 ­ 44, 73, 86, 97, 105 ­ 106 Inzell Initiative 34 ISO 14001 86 J Job security 48, 57 K Key performance indicators (KPI) 49, 61

Cover,

10, 19, 25, 39, 44,

L Life cycle 24, 26 ­ 27, 30, 35, 84, 106, 108 Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) 27, 30, 35, 84, 108 Lightweight construction 03, 27, 29

110

Locations Cover, 02, 04, 07, 10, 12 ­ 13, 15, 21, 39 ­ 44, 46, 49 ­ 50, 52 ­ 56, 58, 62, 64, 67, 73, 88 ­ 90, 92, 95, 103 ­ 104, 108 Logistics 14, 27, 38, 46, 93 ­ 95 M Materiality analysis Cover, 18, 24, 38, 48, 60 Millennium Development Goals 11, 65 MINI Cover, 02 ­ 04, 08, 24 ­ 25, 28 ­ 29, 31, 34, 36, 66, 75, 79, 81 ­ 82, 84, 93, 108 Mobility 03 ­ 04, 06 ­ 09, 12 ­ 13, 20, 25 ­ 34, 46, 51 ­ 52, 57, 61, 63 ­ 64, 73, 78, 85, 102 ­ 103 Mobility research 34, 85 Motorcycles 04, 19 ­ 20, 33, 75, 77, 86 ­ 87, 96, 99 N NGOs Cover, 12 Nitrogen oxides (NOx) 29 ­ 30, 89 Number ONE (strategy) 04, 06, 08 ­ 09, 18, 20, 28, 36, 50, 53, 58, 77, 107 O Occupational health and safety 48 ­ 49, 99, 105 Occupational safety management 54, 99, 101 OECD 11, 50 OHSAS / OHRIS Cover, 54, 99, 101 P Paint shop 21, 39, 43 ­ 44 Passive safety 24 ­ 26, 32, 85 Personnel costs 100 Plastics 87, 91 Production 02, 04, 08 ­ 09, 11, 14 ­ 15, 21, 24 ­ 26, 30 ­ 31, 35, 39, 40 ­ 46, 52, 55, 57 ­ 58, 70 ­ 73, 75 ­ 76, 78, 86 ­ 88, 91 ­ 92, 94 ­ 95, 99, 101, 105 ­ 106, 108, 111 Product utilisation 26 Product responsibility Cover, 06 ­ 07, 23 ­ 24, 26, 32, 70, 78, 80, 82, 84 ­ 85 Purchasing conditions 07, 14 ­ 15, 72 ­ 73, 107 ­ 108 Q Quality management 14, 36

S Safety trainings 61, 63, 102 School Environmental Education Development (SEED) 64 ­ 65 Science Cover, 29, 34, 51 ­ 52, 64, 67 Service 04, 06, 08, 14, 18, 20, 22, 25 ­ 26, 35 ­ 36, 46, 50 ­ 51, 56, 61 ­ 62, 64 ­ 65, 84 ­ 85, 101 ­ 102, 104 ­ 106, 108 Share of women 97 Skills 50 ­ 53, 57, 62, 64, 101, 105 Social responsibility Cover, 03, 14, 20, 59, 66, 70 ­ 71 Social standards 02, 09, 14 ­ 15, 73, 107 Society 06, 09 ­ 10, 20, 32 ­ 33, 34, 54, 59 ­ 62, 64 ­ 67, 102 ­ 103, 106 Solvents 14, 39, 40, 43 ­ 44, 108 Staff cutbacks 21 Stakeholder Cover, 06 ­ 07, 10, 12 ­ 13, 18, 24, 38, 48, 60, 70, 73, 83, 104 Stakeholder dialogue Cover, 07, 12 ­ 13, 70, 73 Strategy Number ONE 04, 06, 08 ­ 09, 18, 20, 28, 36, 50, 53, 58, 77, 107 Suppliers 07, 10, 14 ­ 15, 21, 27, 72 ­ 73, 83, 105 ­ 108 Supply chain 09, 14 ­ 15, 26, 46, 72 ­ 73, 107 ­ 108 Surface protection 44, 93 ­ 94 Sustainability Cover, 02 ­ 03, 05 ­ 22, 26 ­ 27, 41 ­ 42, 61, 70 ­ 73, 84, 94, 102, 104 ­ 108, 111 Sustainability criteria 14 Sustainability rating 16 Sustainability strategy Cover, 02, 06 ­ 07, 09 ­ 10, 12, 73, 94 Sustainable mobility 07, 09, 12, 27, 29, 34, 73, 78, 85 Sustainable value Cover, 12, 16, 18, 24, 38, 48, 60, 73, 77, 84 ­ 85, 94, 101 ­ 102, 104 ­ 107, 111 T Teleworking 53, 97 Traffic management 26 ­ 27, 34, 85 Transport logistics 38, 46, 93 ­ 95 U UN Global Compact Cover, 11, 13 ­ 14, 20, 22, 26, 34 ­ 35, 40, 50, 53, 58, 61, 107 United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) 11, 40 V Value added 15, 21, 76 Value chain 02, 06, 09 ­ 10, 12, 14 ­ 15, 31 Vehicle safety 25 ­ 26, 32 ­ 33, 84 ­ 85 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 38 ­ 39, 87, 89 ­ 90, 94 ­ 95 W Waste 10, 14, 30, 35, 38 ­ 41, 43 ­ 44, 87, 91, 94 ­ 95, 105, 108, 111 Waste management 38, 44, 91, 94 ­ 95 Wastewater 38 ­ 41, 43, 45, 73, 87, 92, 94 ­ 95, 108 Water consumption 14, 39 ­ 41, 45, 92, 94 ­ 95 Work environment 54 ­ 55 Working time 53

R Ranking 16, 36 Ratings Cover, 08, 16, 21, 73 Raw materials 30, 35, 44, 87, 91 Recyclates 35, 85, 106 Recycling 24 ­ 27, 35, 44 ­ 45, 83 ­ 85, 91, 95, 108 Remuneration 48, 50, 56 Renewable energy 30 ­ 31, 42 ­ 43, 84, 88, 95 Research and Innovation Centre (FIZ) 18, 32, 43, 53, 55, 65, 94 Resources 02 ­ 03, 07, 09, 12, 22, 26 ­ 28, 35, 38 ­ 46, 48, 50 ­ 51, 65, 73, 94, 101, 107 Risk management 06 ­ 07, 15, 18, 22, 40, 73, 108 Road safety 32 ­ 33, 60 ­ 63, 102 ­ 103 Road safety programme 61 RollsRoyce Cover, 02, 04, 32, 41, 75, 81, 93

111

Contacts

Your BMW Group contacts Dr. Verena Schuler Communications Sustainability Telephone +49 89 3824 11 25 Fax +49 89 3821 08 81 Email Verena.Schuler@bmwgroup.de Konstanze Carreras Communications Social Responsibility Telephone +49 89 3825 28 94 Fax +49 89 3821 08 81 Email Konstanze.Carreras@bmwgroup.de Ralph Huber Technology Communications Telephone +49 89 3826 87 78 Fax +49 89 3822 39 27 Email Ralph.Huber@bmwgroup.de

The BMW Group on the Internet www.bmwgroup.com

The BMW Group brands on the Internet www.bmw.com www.mini.com www.rollsroycemotorcars.com

Further information and publications are available at www.bmwgroup.com/responsibility

The BMW Group Sustainable Value Report 2008 is printed on 100 % recycled paper (EnviroTop), that is manufactured from waste paper in a climateneutral process that uses no optical brighteners or chlorine bleach. This paper conforms with the requirements of the "Blue Angel" (RALUZ 14) environmental label. The "Blue Angel" for paper is considered one of the world's strictest environmental labels. The CO 2 emissions generated through the production of paper for this brochure, as well as through print and production, were neutralised by the BMW Group. To this end, the corresponding amount of emissions allowances was erased, with the transaction identification DE80526 on 10 August 2009.

Published by Bayerische Motoren Werke Aktiengesellschaft 80788 Munich Germany Telephone +49 89 3820

