TO

MAKE

A

G

DI

INUIN

FFERENC

O

NT

· 2 009 ·

E

C

O T
TINUING N

MAKE

contents A
DI

FFERE

N C

O

· 2 009 ·

E

C

I am pleased to introduce the 5th edition of our Sustainability review in which we highlight some key milestones in our ongoing journey towards Corporate Sustainability. Whilst this report covers a number of specific initiatives and focus areas, it must be emphasised that Sustainability is more than a collection of activities and projects, but a philosophy that is embedded into our corporate DNA that guides everything that we do. We recognise that our success and that of our stakeholders including our system partners, shareholders, employees, suppliers and the communities in which we operate are inextricably linked. Therefore, the biggest contribution that we can make to the communities in which we operate is to ensure that our business performs well and continues to contribute meaningfully to local economies. I am proud to report that in 2009 we again managed to deliver record sales and profits despite the deepening Global economic crisis. This was attained through the collective efforts of all of our people as well as through the foresight of our shareholders who continue to invest heavily in the business to position it for sustained growth. Our performance enables us to invest more heavily in activities that further our sustainability goals and some of these are covered in this report . We continue to focus on the four key pillars namely Workplace, Marketplace, Environment and Community. In our Workplace, we have significantly increased our investment in training and development and have seen a measured improvement in the capability of our people. We have also made Employee Engagement one of our top five business priorities which is driven, measured and managed throughout our business.

In the Marketplace we continue to partner with hundreds of independent mini-distributors thereby supporting local enterprise development and broad-based economic empowerment. Our ongoing focus is on ensuring that these partners have the potential to grow and generate real wealth whilst remaining a source of competitive advantage for us. To this end, we are constantly reviewing the effectiveness of this model and have developed a number of hybrid routes to market to cater for the increasingly diverse nature of our customer base. On the Environmental front, we are investing in technologies and systems to measure and minimise our carbon footprint and our impact on local water resources as well as focusing on more effective packaging solutions that will reduce our environmental impact. These are all long-term initiatives and we are making steady progress. The fourth pillar, Community is perhaps closest to the hearts of the majority of our employees since it is here that we are able to give back to segments of our local communities most in need of assistance. Apart from financial investment, our people are passionately involved in many projects across our group and give of their personal time, expertise and resources. I trust that this report will provide a taste of some of the work being done at Coca-Cola Sabco in each of these areas as we strive towards attaining our own ideals of ethical, responsible Corporate Citizenship. Fanus Nothnagel Chief Executive Officer

02

projects, but a philosophy that is embedded into our corporate DNA that guides everything that we do "

" Sustainability is more than a collection of activities and

Our Continued Commitment to the UN Global Compact
The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2. and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, 5. the effective abolition of child labour, and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.
** Published by the United Nations Global Compact Office | March 2007 www.unglobalcompact.org SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2009

PAGE 14 & 15

14 & 15

24 & 26

4 & 15

03

ccs overview
70 years old, 70 years proud

Our Vision
"We will be the best Coca-Cola bottler in the world" · The best: In sales volume growth; and in return-oncapital employed

F

rom humble beginnings 70 years ago, Coca-Cola Sabco has grown a significant footprint across Africa and Asia.

With a knack for making its mark in developing and emerging markets and achieving success in some particularly challenging environments, Coca-Cola Sabco is operational in 12 countries across Africa and Asia. It is constantly on the look-out for new opportunities to expand its global operations in a responsible and sustainable way. Founded in Port Elizabeth as the South African Bottling Company (Sabco) in 1940, the name change to Coca-Cola Sabco came about in 1995, when the company was appointed an anchor bottler of The Coca-Cola Company (TCCC). This key partnership followed the company's expansion beyond South Africa's borders, a move made possible by the country's first democratic elections in 1994. The main stakeholders of Coca-Cola Sabco, a private company, are Gutsche Family Investments and TCCC. We continually strive to become the best Coca-Cola bottler in the world, all the while remaining true to our core values.

· Coca-Cola bottler: Consumer driven, customerorientated manufacturer, sales and distribution company, which markets the products and brands of TCCC · In the world: We measure ourselves against the best Coca-Cola bottlers in the world

Our Values
Integrity: Be honest, open and sincere Individual Initiative: Take pro-active steps to drive performance Customer Value: Exceed customer expectations and add value to customers' business Teamwork: Work with and support colleagues to raise overall performance People Development: Realise employee potential through training and development Mutual Trust & Respect: Treat each other with respect and diginity, and earn trust Commitment: Be accountable and do as you say

04

`The Created Future 2010' is built on the principle that the best way to predict the future is to create it! The Best Way to Predict the Future is to Create it A bold set of goals ­ The Created Future 2010 ­ was developed under the leadership of the Executive Committee (EXCO), in 2007. This has been the guiding compass for our company for the past three years and we are pleased that we are well on track to meeting these goals by the end of 2010. "The Created Future" is about making Coca-Cola Sabco an even greater company than it already is by reaching very tough, but achievable goals. The benefits will be many, including the creation of a secure and growing company, career opportunities, and the achievement of incentives/ profit sharing.

Ultimately, CCS aims to be a better place to work, with more development, wellrounded employees, filled with personal pride and satisfaction!

t

This will be achieved while operating as a highly respected corporate citizen
SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2009

fic

· Achieve Net Sales Revenue in excess of US$1.5bn · Achieve NIBT in excess of US$200m · Create a vibrant working environment where we are all passionate and excited about our jobs · Significantly increase the investment in, and quality of learning and development · Grow Still Beverages profitably to at least 15% of Net Sales Revenue, whilst accelerating the growth of the key Sparkling business · Continuously improve product & package quality standards · Achieve a significant improvement in customer service as measured by CSI (Customer Service Index)

CCS Strategy in Shorthand
growth

en

ef

ien

Quest for the Virtuous Circle

i nve

cy

stm

05

ccs overview
our bottling plants

business update
The Coca-Cola Sabco Group was able to demonstrate the following growth in 2009 versus 2008 Volume : 4.5% increase Operating Profit: 54% increase

12 Countries 25 Bottling Plants More than 10 000 employees Over 240 million consumers

06

territories
DIRE DAWA ADDIS ABABA

Phnom Penh

Population : 13,9 million GDP per capita (PPP) : US$750 Location : Plants located in the capital, Phnom Penh and has been operational for 17 years Employees : 350 Local Operating name : Cambodia Beverage Company Ltd.

CAMBODIA

EThIOPIA

Population : 80 million GDP per capita (PPP) : US$120 Location : Plants located in Addis Ababa and Dire Dawa Employees : 678 Local Operating name : East Africa Bottling Share Company

PIETERSBURG
(POLOKWANE) NELSPRUIT

BLOEMFONTEIN

EAST LONDON

Colombo

PORT ELIZABETH

Population : 20 million GDP per capita (PPP) : US$2 000 Location : Bottling plant located in Biyagama, 18km north east of the capital city, Colombo Employees : 449 Local Operating name : Coca-Cola Beverages Sri Lanka Ltd.

SOUTh AfRICA

Population : 49.32 million GDP per capita (PPP) : US$5 635 Location : Plants located in Polokwane, Nelspruit, Bloemfontein, Port Shepstone and Port Elizabeth Employees : 3 480 Local Operating name : Coca-Cola Fortune Ltd.

SRI LANkA

SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2009

07

territories continued
NAMPULA CHIMOIO

VIENTIANE

MAPUTO

Population : 6.2 million Business Language : English Currency : kip GDP : US$11.28 Billion GDP per capita (PPP) : US$1 900 Coca-Cola Sabco is working on developing appropriate infrastructure in the country, which will include a bottling plant in the country s capital, Vientiane

MOzAMBIqUE
KAMPALA MBARARA

LAOS

Population : 21 million GDP per capita (PPP) : US$900 Location : Plants in Maputo, Chimoio and Nampula Employees : 700 Local Operating name : Coca-Cola Sabco (Mozambique) Sarl

OSHAKATI

WINDHOEK

Population : 2.08 million GDP per capita (PPP) : US$6 900 Location : Two plants: One in the capital Windhoek, another plant in Oshakati, north ­west of the capital Employees : 602 Local Operating name : Namibia Beverages

Population : 29.6 million GDP per capita (PPP) : US$1 100 Location : Plants located in country s capital Kampala, and Mbarara in the western part of Uganda Employees : 664 Local Operating name : Century Bottling Company Ltd.

08

UGANDA

NAMIBIA

ZANZIBAR DAR-ES-SALAAM
NAIROBI

MBEYA

TANzANIA
HO CHI MINH CITY

kENYA

Population : 38 million GDP per capita (PPP) : US$1 800 Location : Embakasi Airport, North Road, Nairobi Employees : 630 Local Operating name : Nairobi Bottlers Ltd.

Population : 42 million GDP per capita (PPP) : US$1 100 Location : Three plants located in Dar-Es-Salaam, Mbeya, and Zanzibar Employees : 755 Local Operating name : Coca-Cola Kwanza Ltd.

HANOL

BHARATPUR KATHMANDU

DA NANG

VIETNAM

NEPAL

Population : 29.5 million GDP per capita (PPP) : US$400 Location : Plants located in Kathmandu and Bharatpur Employees : 456 Local Operating name : Bottlers Nepal Ltd.

Population : 86.5 million GDP per capita (PPP) : US$800 Location : Plants located in Ho Chi Minh City, Hanoi and Da Nang Employees : 1 300 Local Operating name : Coca-Cola Beverages Vietnam Ltd.

SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2009

09

corporate governance at Coca-Cola Sabco
Country Capability (Internal Controls) The Board of Directors acknowledges its responsibility for the systems of internal control. The Group maintains the systems designed to provide reasonable assurance of the integrity and reliability of the financial statements and to adequately safeguard and maintain accountability for the assets. A variety of controls exist at Country level in order to ensure that our Country operations can be optimised. These controls are reviewed and reported on regularly in order to ensure that the Company is cognisant of any changes or risks within our business. Internal Audit Internal audit is an independent function within the Group structure that monitors the system of internal controls at a Country and Group level to ensure that it operates as designed. Internal audit reports identify weaknesses to the Country and Group Audit Committees three times a year. Authorisation Framework The Group has established comprehensive management reporting disciplines, which include the preparation of annual budgets by all operating units. Monthly results and profit forecasts are reviewed, as well as working capital and capital expenditure levels. The Group operates within an approved Chart of Authority, which is managed and monitored throughout the operations. Governance Routines The Board of Directors sets the strategic objectives of the Group and is responsible for the monitoring of the financial performance of the operating units and the Group. The Coca-Cola Sabco Board of Directors consists of two executive and five non-executive directors. They meet at least three times a year. Each subsidiary has a formally constituted Board of Directors who meet at least twice a year.

10

" All directors and employees are expected to espouse the
highest moral and ethical principles, values and standards of conduct as set out in the Group Policy Guidelines "
Business Risk Review There is a regular review of Coca-Cola Sabco's strategic and operational risks. Risk management is integrated into the daily operations and is not a periodic or stand-alone intervention. Statutory compliance The Group requires compliance of all its operations at legal, governance and legislative levels. This is managed at a Country level, with Group support, as required.

A series of critical oversight bodies is in place to ensure that there is effective governance throughout the Group. Well-structured committees, at Country and Group level, oversee audit and finance, remuneration, and overall management of Coca-Cola Sabco. The Audit and Finance Committee operates under the mandate approved by the Board of Directors and meets at least three times a year with Management and its external auditors. The role of the committee has been defined by 10 objectives, including, among others, approving financial policies, assisting directors in the discharge of their duties, reviewing internal audit operations and the annual financial statements, and complying with legislation and other regulatory requirements. The Group Remuneration Committee meets three times a year. Mandated by the Board of Directors, it consists of five directors, four of whom are non-executive. A non-executive director chairs the committee and reports to the Board of Directors. It has five stated objectives that help Coca-Cola Sabco and its shareholders ensure that the directors and staff are fairly rewarded. All directors and employees are expected to espouse the highest moral and ethical principles, values and standards of conduct as set out in the Group Policy Guidelines.

corporate governance Framework

[ [ [ [ [ [

Country Capability (Internal Controls) Internal Audit Authorisation Framework

] ] ] ] ] ]

CCS's six pillars of Corporate Governance
Governance Routines Business Risk Review Statutory Compliance

SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2009

11

sustainability: our approach
" We believe that a sustainable business should result in a sustainable community "
Engage, uplift, sustain ­ the keys to our approach
oca-Cola Sabco sees itself as part of a holistic system of support and engagement in the communities it serves. By applying our unique resources in a responsible and effective manner, we believe that our daily operations, coupled with focused programmes and support projects, can help our communities prosper. As many communities from the territories in which we operate suffer from severe poverty, inefficient healthcare and education services, and have walked a long road of political and civil unrest, we regard these portfolios of poverty relief and community upliftment, healthcare and education as particularly important cornerstones for our Corporate Social Responsibility efforts. Simultaneously, we do not underestimate the important role Coca-Cola Sabco can and should play to help preserve our environment for future generations.

C

These portfolios, which are in line with our commitment to the UN Global Compact, are approached in a systematic, community-specific manner by ensuring that key stakeholders in the community are consulted throughout the process of support. In this way, we aim to ensure that all our community and environmental initiatives are both targeted and sustainable. In alignment with The Coca-Cola Company, we approach our role as a Corporate citizen in four main categories: Workplace · Marketplace · Environment · Community We also subscribe to the principles proposed by the UN Global Compact and support the business call to action.

12

Workplace

Developing our people We know that our people are our most important resource, which is why we aim to foster an open and inclusive work environment, built on established workplace human rights. Our commitment is backed by clear policies, processes and actions ­ through which we strive to develop a highlymotivated, productive and committed workforce that drives business success through superior execution.

Marketplace

New business opportunities, new growth Our commitment remains to provide products and services that meet the growing beverage needs of our consumers, in a responsible manner. We pursue this goal in partnership with our customers and our distributors. As a partner our role includes adopting an inclusive approach aimed at providing sustainable business benefits and opportunities for customers and distributors. At all times our engagements in the marketplace consider the unique needs and contexts of the local community. We have developed key policies, processes and routines to ensure that our engagement with our marketplace is consistent and responsible.

Environment

Thinking of the future Preserving our natural resources and protecting our environment are key priorities. That is why we integrate principles of environmental stewardship and sustainable development into all our business decisions and processes. Our focus shifts beyond the appropriate use of resources within our organisation ­ we aim to make a difference in the external environments surrounding our operations.

We care We are committed to driving locally-relevant, sustainable projects that give rise to economic opportunities, improve the quality of life and foster goodwill within the communities surrounding our organisations. It is a commitment that requires an investment of time, expertise and resources. To ensure community initiatives are focus-driven and effective, we have a clear policy and guidelines for community investment.
SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2009

Community

13

workplace
success lies in our employees who represent the heart and soul of our business "

" The secret of Coca-Cola Sabco's

he secret of Coca-Cola Sabco's success lies in our employees who represent the heart and soul of our business. The collective efforts of every single employee is of paramount importance. Although we all have different roles to play, we all need each other to achieve our common goals and therefore we strive to create a values driven culture where everyone is treated with dignity and respect. Our Created Future remains as the navigational compass and the following two points in it continue to set the tone for our workplace practices: · Create a vibrant environment where we are all passionate and excited about our jobs · We will significantly increase the investment in, and quality of learning and development. Employee Engagement Creating a vibrant working environment is the duty of every leader in our business and as such, every manager and supervisor has Employee Engagement as one of their

T

five objectives. In order to measure this objective, we conducted our third Employee Engagement Survey this year in which every employee was given the chance to participate. We are pleased to report that we are making steady progress, and this will remain a key focus area in our business going forward. Workplace Rights As stated in our Workplace Rights Policy, we are committed to fostering open and inclusive workplaces that are based on recognised workplace human rights, where all employees are valued and inspired to be the best they can be. The Company's Workplace Rights Policy is guided by international human rights standards, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organisation's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the United Nations Global Compact. In support of this policy commitment, each of our operations has undergone a Workplace Rights Audit

14

Our Inside Track Programme provides an intensive induction into the Sabco organisation for new high potential employees to give them a broader understanding of the business.The delegates from October 2009's program representing 8 of our countries across Africa and Asia together with EXCO representitives are pictured here outside our Group Office in Port Elizabeth with our new neighbour, 2010 soccer world cup venue the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in the background.

which evaluates compliance to the Coca-Cola Supplier Guiding Principles which include freedom of association and collective bargaining, child labour, forced labour and abuse of labour, discrimination, work hours and wages, health and safety and environment. In addition to this, all major raw material suppliers are audited by The Coca-Cola Company to ensure compliance to these Supplier Guiding Principles and all other suppliers have contractual clauses obliging them to comply with the principles. Learning and Development We remain committed to provide meaningful development to our employees in order to raise them to their full potential. In 2009 we increased our investment in Learning and Development to over $3million and have built on our learning framework which focuses on building distinctive bottler skills through functional programs across the value chain and the entrenchment of management and leadership development across the talent pipeline. Our flagship programs such as Executive Development for senior leaders, Management Talent

Development Program for future leaders and Inside Track, a focused on-boarding program for new employees, continue to provide high impact learning experiences. Our Exco's commitment to Learning and Development is shown in the focus on both the quantity and quality of training in their monthly business review and in their personal involvement in many of our development programs. Talent Development Committees (TDC) A hallmark of our commitment to developing our people is our Talent Development Committee process. This is a robust process comprising a series of forums at various levels across the business in which our leadership engages in active dialogue about the people in our business, particularly their succession, career and development plans. Feeding into this process is our PeoplePlan Performance management system through which every employee has the opportunity to discuss their career opportunities and development plans to help make these become a reality. This two-way process ensures that corporate succession planning is aligned with the individual's aspirations and potential.

SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2009

15

Group Office |

Pay It forward
"
working after hours and on weekends to help these charities. It was truly an uplifting experience" said Elsje Smuts, Group Communication Specialist. The 3 projects that were identified and supported were: PEOPLE: COEGA DOOR OF HOPE is found in a three bedroomed house near Group Office in Port Elizabeth. It is a safe haven for more than 30 children ­ babies, toddlers, youngsters and teenagers, who have been taken off the streets under the strong wing of an angel called Gladys. Her aim is to give them a life of hope and dignity, which includes a roof over their heads, a tummy full of food and an education that will ensure a better future packaged in an unfailing love for each and every child. Gladys provides what she herself can, taking no income and then relies on sponsorships or donations for the rest. The cramped house was given a complete overhaul, rooms totally reorganised, beds provided, cupboards built for the kitchen, a floor-to-ceiling spring clean, roofs repaired, ceilings replaced with a total overall better living condition provided for the children. In Gladys' words, they made it into a "Home". As it was the Festive Season the best ever Christmas party was laid on for the children and caregivers of the charity. An amount of R48 000 was raised to sponsor children for a two year period.

" This is sheer magic that united

our people in making a difference

A

t a time when many were feeling the harsh reality of the worldwide economic crash, the staff at CCS wanted to make a difference in their community. Urged by the principle of "Pay It Forward" the staff agreed to give to the community by using budget allocated for the Group Office Year End Function and provide something that would give cause for others to celebrate the Festive Season. It began with a visit to the theatre where our staff enjoyed a soul-stirring movie about a small boy who made a big difference in his world. It is a story about how one small, kind act on the part of one could lead to the multiplication of many kind acts in the future. With this focus the "Pay It Forward" projects were put to the group and in true CCS style their response was overwhelmingly positive. Aligning with our business 3 P's i.e. People, Product, Passion, 3 options were provided to align with the interests of individuals viz. People, Pets and Planet. Everyone was called to volunteer as their hearts directed them. Armed with an allocation of R9000.00 for each group it was up to the members to determine the needs of each charity and how they would support them. "Everybody got involved,

16

PLANET: SWEET POTATO PROJECT began at Canzibe Primary School in Motherwell township. The sweet potato is a crop that does not require much water and adapts better to global warming than other similar crops. The nursery, run by teachers at the school, does not only feed the community with this exceptionally nutritious vegetable, but is also used to teach the children vital skills and environmental knowledge. It also supplements the school feeding programme to ensure the children received good food for better learning. The nursery was in need of improved guttering to the water tanks, hoses for the garden and other expensive maintenance issues. This was a job for the CCS engineers! They immersed themselves in this project, accomplishing all this as well as providing a second water tank, erecting fencing around the nursery to protect it from theft and vandalism, and an earthworm farm to feed the soil and plants and grow the plants organically. PETS: SAVE-A-PET is an animal rescue shelter that rescues, rehabilitates, reunites and re-homes abandoned abused, lost and stray animals. It is run by a private individual with a tremendous love for animals. Mavis started out on her own with no sponsorships. Her shelter is now a safe haven to more than 200 dogs and 200 cats who are available for adoption to loving homes. Save-a-Pet requested blankets and pet food from our project leaders. However, their premises on the outskirts of Port Elizabeth very soon became alive with activity including cleaning and painting of their outbuildings, garden clearing and rubble removal. In addition to this, a comfort room was provided to shelter animals distressed particularly by thunder & lightening. Leashes & collars, blankets, signage for the shelter and wood for the kennels were donated by caring suppliers. Dog kennels were built at CCS offices after working hours. Staff members contributed with huge donations of pet food, toys & bedding.

"They give of

their time and skills, pushing themselves as a team to overcome what may at first appear to be insurmountable odds "

Group Office |

Everest Challenge
A
s a demonstration of the company's values in action, the creative and generous response of Coca-Cola Sabco employees to the Everest Challenge continues to astound and delight. Since its launch in 2005, the Challenge has enabled employees ­ without the use of company funds and relying entirely on their own integrity, initiative and commitment ­ to touch the lives of communities in need throughout our territories. They give of their time and skills, pushing themselves as a team to overcome what may at first appear to be insurmountable odds. Each country coordinates their own projects and submits one challenge to the Group for entry into the annual Everest Challenge award. The winning country receives a prestigious trophy and a financial reward that is used to further boost their particular project.
SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2009

17

Everest Challenge 2009 Winner
UGANDA | Creating a sustainable food project for SALAMA SCHOOL FOR BLIND CHILDREN "Together we made it happen." The sixty blind children, blind headmaster and ten staff members at Salama School were starving by the time they were visited by the team from Uganda's All Century Bottling Company (CBC), late one afternoon. Team leader Maureen Kyomuhendo said they quickly ascertained that the children had last eaten a meagre bowl of porridge the previous evening... and nothing since. Quickly, the CBC group of Kampala and Mbarara employees mobilised a fundraising campaign and, with $250, bought enough food to last the school about two months. "We soon realised that instead of giving `the fish', we needed to give `the fishing rod'," she explained. And so the idea for this sustainable project was born. The team got on board `Send a Cow Uganda', a local NGO who supports vulnerable groups in the community, and was able to provide technical expertise such as the best choice of high-yielding heifers. The two animals they chose were due to deliver their calves in three months, so the CBC team got to work ploughing and planting three acres of grass for the cows. They also installed a shed that would make maintenance easy for the sighted staff at Salama School. "Touching the hearts of these children at their point of need is a gesture that sows a mustard seed. We helped to improve the lives of the less privileged where we live and work. And together, we made it happen."

Previous Worthy Winners
2005/2006 joint winners: - CCS GROUP OFFICE ­ Virtual Starfish project (now known as Wings & Wishes, which enables the transportation of critically ill children to medical facilities across South Africa) - NAMIBIA ­ Project CoheSAN (repairing and stabilising the water supply to a Namibian San community) 2006/2007 winner: - SRI LANKA ­ Dawn of a New Day (school building project in Ratugala village) 2007/2008 winner: - KENYA ­ Caravan of Hope (ensuring the safety and well being of Nairobi Bottlers employees in the midst of political and civil unrest)

18

Group Office |

Wings & Wishes
"Great opportunities to help others seldom come, but small ones surround us daily."

W

ings & Wishes, a registered programme under the Coca-Cola Sabco Community Foundation (IT 60/2007), is committed to facilitating the transport of critically ill children and an accompanying family member to the Red Cross Children's Hospital in Cape Town, South Africa, or to an alternative appropriate medical facility for treatment. Since inception in 2006, over 250 children have been assisted, involving more than 1000 flights. The programme is funded entirely through donations, and run by a small group of passionate volunteers. Donations can be made in four ways:Voyager air miles in amounts of 20 000 or 30 000; monetary donations to pay for airport taxes and surcharges; pledge a flight where flight costs are invoiced to individuals; and mercy items such as toys and toiletries for the children and their families in their time of distress.

2009 was marked by the incredible support we received from individuals and organisations who continue to sponsor the programme. Round Table South Africa adopted Wings & Wishes as their beneficiary for fundraising events this year, whilst other organisations such as Coca-Cola Fortune, the Rotary Club and various schools and other corporate sponsors pledged funds and support. Successful golf days held in Port Elizabeth and Johannesburg helped to raise the awareness of the programme, and numerous sportsmen and women raised funds in sporting events. Wings & Wishes is committed to providing compassionate support immediately, with minimal bureaucracy, whilst maintaining the highest level of integrity and dignity for the children and their families. Please visit our website on www.wingsandwishes.org, and help us to make a difference in the lives of these critically ill children.

SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2009

19

marketplace

Our marketplace activities focus primarily on three areas
Serving our Consumers Working closely with The Coca-Cola Company to constantly review the needs of consumers and provide as wide a portfolio of beverage options as local contexts allow Engaging responsibly with our consumers through our marketing activities Adding Value to our Customers Viewing customers as key partners and resolutely focusing on exceeding customer expectations by adding value to their businesses Providing Economic opportunity in our distribution system Adopting an inclusive business model in identified territories and aiming to create sustainable long-term business opportunities for distribution partners

" ...our primary motive is to ensure
a sound and sustainable core business model "

20

Economic Opportunity in an inclusive business model At Coca-Cola Sabco we continue to build on the work that began over ten years ago with the original Manual Distribution Centre (MDC) model in East Africa. The original model was designed as a hybrid solution to the distribution challenges of emerging and developing markets and has provided significant entrepreneurial opportunities. In East Africa a significant proportion of our volume (in excess of 80%) is still sold through MDCs. In some markets, particularly in Asia, we have begun to see the model evolve as we aim to stay in touch with local needs and requirements. For example, to ensure a sustainable business model in countries such as Vietnam and Cambodia, larger independent distribution partners now play a key role in our route-to-market.

Supporting the UN Business Call to Action Together with The Coca-Cola Company we continued to contribute to the United Nations Business Call to Action. This initiative focuses on an organisations development contribution through its core business model. While our primary objective as a business is to ensure a sound and sustainable core business model, we remain very encouraged by the entrepreneurial opportunities that have been created through managed third party distribution models such as the MDC model. The critical role that women play in poverty alleviation is well known and we are pleased that the MDC model has provided sustainable small business ownership opportunities to many women. Around 30% of our MDCs are owned by women, many of whom represent our most successful MDCs. A number of others may be co-owned by a couple but managed by women. The focus of our contribution during 2009 has been to continue to provide access to our network of MDCs in East Africa to development partners. We have openly shared our learnings of this inclusive business model in a bid to find ways to enhance both the business and development impact.

SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2009

21

Inspired by our MDC owners
We are inspired by some of our MDC owners who have overcome many challenges to build successful businesses. In each case they have also provided consistent income for their own employees, most of whom carry very little formal education and who commonly battle to generate consistent incomes to survive. Rosemary, Lillian and John featured in this article represent such inspiring people. We find examples such as these in many of our territories.

Developing entrepreneurial and business skills A key component of what was called the micro distribution `learning laboratory' in Tanzania was the development of an innovative business simulation training program for MDC owners and the supporting bottler sales staff. This program was specifically designed to equip those attending with better business skills. The program was completed in collaboration with The Cola-Cola Company, The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the Academy for Educational Development. During the course of the six modules the participants quickly got involved with the creation of simulated business strategies and competed to see who could generate the biggest profits, while adequately providing for their families and saving for unforeseen events. The final module focused on social marketing and gave the MDC owners a glimpse of their potential impact on their surrounding communities.

JOHN MUNGEDE NAJOLI Owner of Jojasmi Traders Coca-Cola Distributors About 50 km from Nairobi in Athi-River town you will find Jojasmi Distributors, owned by John Mungede Najoli. John is passionate about selling Coca-Cola products and enjoys visiting outlets to get feedback to enable him to serve his customers better. He was given his business opportunity by Nairobi Bottlers in April 2007 and has not looked back. He started the business with four employees using two twenty feet containers for warehousing. His business has grown by 50% in three years. From 8,000 cases in year 2007 to 12,000 cases per month through the 318 outlets which he services. This has meant that he now employs 16 people, using nine bicycles as well as a one-ton van to deliver his products. He has also secured additional storage space. He credits the business with improving the standard of living for his family greatly and he has also been able to invest in some farming activities and a wholesale business with the proceeds from Jojasmi.

22

ROSEMARY NJERI Owner of Rosinje MDC in Nairobi, Kenya Rosemary started as a small Coca-Cola stockist in the late 1990s where she employed two people. Rosemary was one of the first beneficiaries of Nairobi Bottlers' change in distribution model when in late 1999 she was given an opportunity to operate a Manual Distribution Centre (MDC) in the heart of downtown Nairobi. Years later, she is an example of what can be achieved through commitment and dedication and runs a profitable and sustainable business. Rosemary has 3 children whom she has been able to educate through proceeds from the business. She has also used funds from the business to acquire property. According to Nairobi Bottlers, Rosemary has been acknowledged as a hands-on business owner who sets a fine example for her staff. The business has grown consistently and Rosemary now employs 16 people. She is also very loyal to her staff, many of whom have been with her business for many years. In fact, two of her salesmen have been able to build houses from their income earned since the MDC was opened.

LILIAN NALE Owner Lilian MDC Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania Lilian Nale, an MDC owner in Kinondoni, Dar-es-Salaam, employs 5 people at her operation. She says, "Being (an) MDC owner has empowered me (in) business skills and management as a whole. It has helped me to pay school fees for my lovely daughter, Angel, and I am starting to build my own house now. Working closely with Coca-Cola Kwanza's support, Lilian overcame a serious challenge when the full complement of her stock was stolen a few years ago. With strong support from Coca-Cola Kwanza she has since developed into one of the most successful MDC owners in Dar-es-Salaam and has recently been given the opportunity to expand her territory and make use of a small vehicle as a result of her consistent performance.

provided consistent income for their own employees "
SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2009

" In each case they have also

23

environment
stewardship and our responsibility to the planet lies at the heart of every business and operational decision at Coca-Cola Sabco "

" An acute awareness of environmental

A

n acute awareness of environmental stewardship and our responsibility to the planet lies at the heart of every business and operational decision at Coca-Cola Sabco. CCS remains committed to implementing ISO 9001, ISO 22000, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18000 across the CCS Group of Companies. Operations that ended the year with TCCMS (The Coca-Cola Management System) Evolution 3 Certification are in the process of converting to ISO certifications. Coca-Cola Beverages Sri Lanka Ltd and Nairobi Bottlers are already ISO9001 certified and, in addition, Sri Lanka has achieved ISO14001 and OHSAS 18000 certification. Great strides have been made with respect to implementing ISO 22000 Food Safety Management, with more than half of the CCS operations now ISO22000 certified. The remaining plants all have Hazard Analysis of Critical Control Points (HACCP) Food Safety Certification.

Water Use: As a result of climate change, global development and population growth, it is expected that by the year 2020 two thirds of the world population will live in severe water stress while a third of all land will experience severe water stress. There will also be significant water quality degradation and a significant increase in competition for fresh water. This will mean more aggressive allocation, increased prices and the potential for greater conflict over water resources. Because of these factors, water use initiatives and projects have been receiving special attention, with increased focus in 2010 and beyond. Reduce: The 2009 Group water usage ratio remained steady at 3.4 litres of beverage / litre of product produced versus 2008 results. Good improvements were seen in 2009 in Asia Division where there was more than 6% reduction in water use versus prior year.

24

Water use reduction will be aggressively targeted in 2010 and is one of the key focus areas for Supply Chain. Initiatives include the latest technology in bottle washers, which have guaranteed water usage rates of as little as 180 ml fresh water per bottle washed. (This is a reduction of up to two thirds of the current water use of existing washers on these sites.) The new generation washers are being installed in Da Nang in Vietnam, Mbeya in Tanzania, and Chimoio in Mozambique. Other initiatives include new technologies for cleaning equipment, which reduce operating times, as well as water usage without reducing performance. A dry lubricant for slat chain conveyors on Poly Ethylene Terephthalate PET lines is also being introduced. Recycle: New Sequential Batch Reactor Waste Water Treatment Plants (WWTP) are being constructed for Maputo and Chimoio plants in Mozambique; Dar Es Salaam and Mbeya plants in Tanzania; and Dire Dawa plant in Ethiopia. These WWTP will allow these sites to recycle their waste water for auxiliary activities such as truck washing, land irrigation and dust control.

5.6%

17.5%

water use ratio L/L Bev

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

Graph 1.1 The water-usage ratio showed steady improvement from 2001 to 2003. In 2004, additional operations were acquired in Asia.These had less efficient water management systems in place, which increased the ratio by 7,5%. The 2009 Group water usage ratio remained steady at 3.4 litres of beverage / litre of product produced versus 2008 results.

" Coca-Cola Sabco remains

committed to reduce its water usage ratio aggressively " 25

SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2009

Re-use: Backwash water from Water Treatment plants are collected, the turbidity is monitored and the water is re-used within the plant. Water Risk: In 2009, six CCS operations conducted Source Water Vulnerability Assessments (SVA). The SVA provide a basis for each operation to gain an understanding of water availability and quality, now and in the future, based on projected population changes, industrial usage changes and climatic changes. It also provides an understanding of water usage/ demand in the context of local supply and usage against technically available water resources. Additionally it identifies potential areas for watershed protection through individual or collaborative actions. These SVA will continue in 2010. Leading from the SVA is the development of Source Water Protection Plans which will result in the development of an action plan for water risk in terms of quantity, quality and resource protection. Sustainable Packaging: 2009 saw Coca-Cola Fortune in South Africa reduce PET bottle weight for 2-litre pack sizes by 3.8% and for 500ml PET package types by 16%. Similar reductions in bottle weight were also achieved in Vietnam. In Cambodia PET was launched using the latest 1881 low-profile finish design, which results in between 2.5-5% reduction in bottle weight and significant savings in closure weight. Nairobi Bottlers in Kenya also reduced their bottle weight of Dasani still water without impacting on either the performance characteristics of the bottle or the product integrity. Light-weighting initiatives will continue in 2010 with a focus on reducing PET bottle and closure weights.

Energy Management and Conservation: From 2010, the CCS Group will measure the carbon footprint of all manufacturing operations. Its aim is to reduce system-wide emissions from its plants. CCS is committed to the philosophy of `Grow the Business not the Carbon'. Many CCS operations are located in regions where a significant portion of their electricity is derived from fossil fuels, which have high greenhouse gas emission factors. This makes energy management and conservation one of the company's top priorities. In 2009, the CCS Group recorded a 4.8% annual improvement in electricity efficiency and a 1% improvement for total plant energy efficiency. This was achieved by a number of factors, including equipment that allowed for higher product-filling temperatures and thereby reduced expensive product-cooling requirements during manufacture. Additionally, compressed air recovery and recycle systems for bottle blow-moulding plants were used. Lagging of chilled water pipes and steam pipes were improved. More energy efficient lighting was used in a number of operations and the concept of maximum use of natural lighting in warehouses and bottling lines was continued across the CCS Group. In summary, our future as an organisation is dependent on the consistent availability of key raw materials and it is incumbent upon us to ensure that we optimise the use of these scarce raw materials. We also need to continually challenge ourselves to look for opportunities across the value chain that will reduce our impact on the environment and this will be a major focus area for The Coca-Cola Company and for Coca-Cola SABCO.

26

External Initiatives
SRI LANKA | RECYCLING Recycling for a `greener' Sri Lanka Coca-Cola Beverages Sri Lanka's `Give Back Life' recycling initiative has seen thousands of used PET (Polyethylene terephthalate) bottles collected from the community, generating much-needed environmental awareness and contributing to the country's fight against pollution. And after winning two impressive awards for its innovative logo and informative project material, the initiative is well and truly in the public eye. In May, the 2008-launched initiative won two Chillies advertising awards, a silver and a bronze, in the categories of Brand Corporate Design and Collateral Material Design. Manish Chaturvedi, Country Manager for Sri Lanka and Maldives, Coca-Cola Far East Limited, said: "This is one of our most important Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives, so this is indeed a commendable reward. The design was effective in bringing out the message we wanted to convey about PET recycling." Meanwhile, the initiative has successfully collected tons of PET bottles this year, most during a two-day collection drive in Nuwara Eliya in May, which was supported by the town's mayor, along with three successful collection drives among the employees and residents of Biyagama in June, in which 1,3 tons of PET bottles were collected. Following the Biyagama drive, Patrick Pech, Country Manager, Coca-Cola Beverages Sri Lanka, said: "We certainly got more volumes than expected. This is a reflection of Coca-Cola's ­ as well as our consumers' ­ dedication towards the conservation and the protection of the environment." VIETNAM | WATER Taking clean water to the poor With an abundance of rivers and streams and one of the longest coastlines in the world, water is everywhere in Vietnam, yet supply is not evenly distributed and water is often polluted. In fact, it has been estimated that 30% of the population still lacks access to clean water, according to the United Nations Development Programme. To help improve the situation, The Coca-Cola Foundation, Coca-Cola South East Asia and Coca-Cola Beverages Vietnam, in partnership with the humanitarian organisation East Meets West Foundation, implemented the Clean Water for Community initiative, bringing clean water to 675 poor households in the impoverished areas of Thu Duc District in Hoi Chi Minh City, and Da Nang and Thuong Tin District In Ha Noi. The project involved extending water supply pipes to these areas from the existing city water supply system, and providing free potable water connections and water meters to these households.
SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2009

27

MOzAMBIQUE | WATER Water for the poor While considerable progress has been made over the past years to bring water supply and sanitation to more people in Mozambique, water and sanitation remains one of the country's most under-developed areas. According to the United Nations Children Fund (Unicef), just over a third of the population has access to safe water and 45 per cent to adequate sanitation. In fact, it is estimated that more than 300,000 children would need access to an improved water supply and sanitation every year in order to reach the Millennium Development Goal (MDG) target for water and sanitation in 2015. With this in mind, Coca-Cola Sabco in Mozambique, in partnership with Mozlink, an empowerment association for small and medium enterprises, embarked on a water sanitation project, which aimed to provide drinking water for the Nampula rural areas, as well as residents in Chimoio. The Nampula initiative saw the opening of 10 water sources in three rural districts, providing drinking water for about 2,500 families. These families were also trained in the use of latrines.In Chimoio, a mobile water treatment plant was supplied, benefiting about 10,000 inhabitants. Coca-Cola Sabco was also involved in sanitation awareness initiatives in peri-urban communities in Maputo.

CAMBODIA | WATER A healthier Cambodia Seventy-four per cent of deaths in Cambodia are caused by water-borne illnesses, according to Resource Development International ­ Cambodia (RDIC), an international NGO driving clean water projects in that country. What's more, naturally-occurring arsenic in the ground water has caused sickness of epidemic proportion. The Cambodia Beverage Company, in partnership with RDIC, launched an initiative to improve the health of nearly 6,000 students and teachers in Kandal Province (Lvea Ime and Kien Svay districts).

28

They provided 1,000 ceramic water purifiers for every classroom in a number of rural schools, and are also investigating whether these schools require further assistance with their existing water supply, such as new water piping or wells. The project includes quarterly capacity-building workshops at the schools, where teachers and parents can learn about water, health and basic hygiene and also see water filter demonstrations. A grassroots education initiative is also planned, whereby RDIC will work with nearby communities to grow the distribution of water filters and create a `train-thetrainer' community network.

CAMBODIA | A cleaner Cambodia With infectious water-borne diseases endemic throughout Cambodia, keeping its waterways clean is a national priority. To help in the fight, the Cambodia Beverage Company ­ working side by side with Sihanouk municipality, rubbish collection company Cintri, Build Bright University and nongovernmental organisation Cambodian Women for Peace and Development (CWPD) ­ collected rubbish from rivers and beaches in the Sihanouk Province.

The initiative formed part of a broader agreement between Coca-Cola global and a non-governmental organisation, Ocean Conservatory, which annually drives an International Coastal Clean-up ­ the world's largest volunteer effort to help The initiative formed part of a broader agreement protect the ocean. between Coca-Cola globally and a non-governmental

"

organisation, Ocean Conservatory, which annually drives an International Coastal Clean-up ­ the world's largest volunteer effort to help protect the ocean "
SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2009

29

fight to keep South Africa clean by participating in several school clean-up events ­ some within communities and some at the beach "
NEPAL | WATER Clean water: Walking the talk In a country where groundwater arsenic is a problem and the annual monsoons give rise to water-borne illnesses like cholera, raising awareness around water and health issues is a priority. On World Water Day in March, Bottlers Nepal Limited, in partnership with the non-governmental organisation Environment and Public Health Organisation (ENPHO), organised an awareness campaign `Water Walk ­ Water Talk' on safe drinking water and sanitation, aimed at school children from the five municipal areas in Bharatpur, namely Lalitpur, Hetauda, Bharatpur, Butwal and Nepalguni. The campaign highlighted water conservation techniques, safe drinking water options, health and sanitation. At the same time, an inter-school art competition relating to safe drinking water was held in the areas where the `Partnership for Safe Water' campaign ­ supported by Bottlers Nepal Limited and the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat) ­ is implemented. World Hand-washing Day in October saw water purifiers distributed to public schools and clinics in 22 wards of Lalitpur through the `Partnership for Safe Water' campaign.

" Coca-Cola fortune joined in the

NEPAL | WATER A healthier environment Coca-Cola Nepal celebrated World Environment Day in June with three successful programmes ­ one celebrating safe water zones, a second promoting rainwater harvesting and a third focusing on a cleaning up communities. Its `Partnership for Safe Water' project ­ a joint collaboration between Bottlers Nepal Limited, the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat) and Coca-Cola India ­ officially declared three communities "100% Safe Water Zones", in a ceremony inaugurated by Birendra Man Shakya, Nepal's Chief of Water Quality Improvement and Monitoring Section. Each household in these communities ­ Chusika, Chocheen in ward 11 and Lonhla in ward 9 ­ is purifying drinking water at home, using at least one household-level drinking water treatment method. Secondly, in keeping with its commitment to conserve and preserve the environment, Bottlers Nepal Limited collaboratively launched a water conservation project, whereby several indigenous ways will be

30

demonstrated to harvest rainwater for groundwater recharge in selected communities in the Lalitpur Sub-Metropolitan City. Just a few weeks later, Bottlers Nepal Limited actually co-sponsored a high-level meeting on rainwater harvesting, organised to draft policy recommendations at government level. The Kathmandu meeting, attended by various foreign diplomats and representatives from a number of international health organisations, was inaugurated by Prime Minister Madhav Kumar Nepal and Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Physical Planning and Works Bijay Kumar Gachchhadar. A final programme for World Environment Day was a clean-up initiative by Bottlers Nepal (Terai) Limited, which saw Coca-Cola and municipal employees using Coca-Cola sponsored tractors and dustbins to clean up the communities of Hamro Tole Sudhar Samittee (Ward 12) and Basant Tole Sudhar Samittee (Ward 9).

SAIAB strives to raise awareness around water scarcity, water quality and the life sustained by South Africa's streams, rivers and oceans "
Through its outreach to schools, SAIAB strives to raise awareness around water scarcity, water quality and the life sustained by South Africa's streams, rivers and oceans. Coca-Cola Fortune was also on hand to provide refreshments and lucky draw prizes to pupils from the Crags Primary School in Plettenberg Bay and adults from the Kurland community, who had teamed up to clean Kurland Village. During the International Coastal Cleanup Campaign that same month, Coca-Cola Fortune staff members participated in a major beach clean-up in Port Elizabeth, which was attended by pupils from Zanolwazi Secondary School in Despatch. Coca-Cola Fortune sponsored beverages, squeeze bottles, caps and water. The Coca-Cola Music Truck was present at the event.
SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2009

" Through its outreach to schools,

SOUTH AFRICA | WASTE REMOVAL Encouraging kids to clean up Coca-Cola Fortune joined in the fight to keep South Africa clean by participating in several school clean-up events ­ some within communities and some at the beach. During National Cleanup Week in September, Coca-Cola Fortune provided beverages to the pupils, parents and teachers at two Grahamstown schools ­ NV Cewu School and DD Siwisa ­ participating in two separate clean-up events organised by the South African Institute for Aquatic Biodiversity (SAIAB). The aim of the drive was to encourage a culture of respect for the environment and a sense of pride in their surroundings.

31

community
to current and future generations, which is why we strive to identify projects that empower communities ­ where they are responsible for nurturing the seeds we have planted "

" We believe in making a difference,

C

oca-Cola Sabco cares about the people in our surrounding communities ­ and we are determined to empower them by cultivating long-term, self-sustainable projects. Much of our community focus has also been on external environment initiatives as covered on page 27 -31.

The projects we tackle range from small to large-scale, and are as diverse as ensuring clean drinking water for thousands to nurturing future cricket stars. We want to make a difference at both ends of the spectrum, be it a whole village, or a single, deserving child. To ensure community projects are effective, they are selected according to a decentralised model contained within a broad Group Corporate Responsibility Policy. What this means is that each territory can choose the community project or activity it would like to support, but must justify its selection within the Group Policy and Governance Processes. Furthermore, the Group Policy requires that each operation invests the equivalent of at least one per cent of its operating profit in community projects. The following section outlines some of the many examples where Coca-Cola Sabco has partnered with the community to make a difference in key priority areas. While the company often provides funding for projects, many of our employees freely offer their talents and time to the initiatives we support. We are both thankful and proud!

We believe that by imparting skills and knowledge and providing opportunities where experience can be gained and confidence built, communities can drive the projects we help them launch. Our five main areas of assistance include community water stewardship, community support, healthcare, education and disaster relief. Working hand in hand with key stakeholders in the community, we identify projects related to priority needs in that community and set about tackling them, utilising our unique capabilities and resources. In some projects, we work closely with existing community organisations ­ and are always in awe of those who tirelessly devote their lives to improving the lives of others.

32

EDUCATION
SOUTH AFRICA | Turning schools of shame into reputable institutions Coca-Cola Fortune has been determined to improve the learning conditions for pupils at some of the country's most rundown schools. Its efforts included refurbishing the rundown science facilities at Cowan High School in Port Elizabeth. Broken science equipment was repaired or replaced, and more chairs were purchased, as the school did not have enough for all the pupils. Coca-Cola Fortune also got stuck into the dilapidated Yellowwoods Farm School, by refurbishing desks, repairing leaking ceilings, building a jungle gym and removing hazardous debris from the school grounds. The organisation was also quick to donate a much-needed jungle gym to Calitzdorp Primary School, which is attended by children from the farm community surrounding Cradock, most of whom are from disadvantaged backgrounds.

ensure community projects are effective, " To are selected according to a decentralised they model contained within a broad Group Corporate Responsibility Policy

"

CAMBODIA | Promoting literacy With just under a third of the population in Cambodia said to be illiterate, the Cambodia Beverage Company (CBC) is committed to promoting reading initiatives. This year, the CBC, in partnership with the Asia Foundation, a non-profit organisation, launched the Book of Life Programme, which will see the transformation of 10 run-down school libraries into model reading rooms with adequate light fixtures, reading tables and chairs, bookshelves and English books. Ten schools in seven poor rural provinces, namely Kampot, Takeo, Battambang, Siem Reap, Prey Veng, Svay Rien and Kampong Cham, have been selected. The programme will also organise an essay competition for the 10 schools on the importance of reading, with the winner receiving books and school supplies.
SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2009

33

hEALTh
MOzAMBIQUE | Supporting blood drive While Mozambique has 135 blood banks scattered throughout the country, HIV, malaria, hepatitis, and sexually transmitted diseases force the blood centres to discard about 15 per cent of all donations. What's more, most donors are directed donors, meaning they donate for a specific family member of friends. MOzAMBIQUE | A heart for sick kids As in other developing countries, heart disease ranks high in Mozambique, particularly among children. In Mozambique, over 150,000 children suffer from cardiovascular diseases and 10% of them urgently require heart surgery, according to the Surgeons of Hope Foundation, which runs medical missions in developing countries, including Mozambique. The causes of heart disease in developing countries are largely poor nutrition and the unavailability of most sophisticated medications, and the problem is compounded by the lack of cardiologists and heart surgeons. In 2001, the Surgeons Of Hope Foundation opened the Maputo Heart Institute, a state-of-the-art cardio-vascular facility, the base for three to four surgery missions per year, where overseas teams bring supplies, perform surgery and also train local cardiologists. Since good nutrition is vital for recovery, Coca-Cola Sabco provided food for the children undergoing surgery during the various missions, as well as their parents and caregivers. It also organised a children's Christmas party. UGANDA | Raising breast cancer awareness Century Bottling Company was recognised for its contribution to breast cancer ­ the third most common form of cancer afflicting Ugandan women ­ at a National Breast Cancer Care Fund dinner attended by Ugandan president Yoweri Museveni. The company was praised for its 2008 `Buy One Help One' campaign, in which it donated two Ugandan shillings from every 300ml bottle of product sold to the National Breast Cancer Care Fund, in order to raise awareness about the disease. At the same dinner, Century Bottling Company successfully bid for a portrait of Museveni, which was being auctioned to raise funds for breast cancer. MOzAMBIQUE | COPA tournament platform for Aids awareness Coca-Cola Sabco in Mozambique ran HIV/Aids awareness campaigns during this year's COPA Coca-Cola youth soccer tournament, in which 100 schools participated. Started in Mexico in 1968, COPA Coca-Cola is also held in Nigeria, South Africa, Uganda, Kenya Tanzania, Zambia, Malawi, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Namibia, Ethiopia, culminating in an inter-Africa final, which this year took place in South Africa, with Nigeria claiming the title. The annual tournament seeks to develop youth talent in soccer and promote active and healthy lifestyles.

34

POVERTY ALLEVIATION
VIETNAM | Including the poor in Vietnamese New Year celebrations Tt Nguyên án, the Vietnamese New Year more commonly known by its shortened name Tt, is the most important and popular holiday and festival in Vietnam. Poverty, however, excludes many people from these celebrations. To help spread some new year cheer, Coca-Cola Beverages Vietnam and Coca-Cola South East Asia introduced the Tt for the Poor programme several years ago, and this year donated 600 gift packs to poor households, students and trade unions in Hoi Chi Minh City and Ha Noi. Coca-Cola Beverages Vietnam also presented 80 gift packs to members of the Association of the Blind in District 9 in Hoi Chi Minh City. Tt usually takes place from the first day of the first month of the Lunar calendar (around late January or early February) until at least the third day ­ and is a time for many customs, including visiting family and eating special foods. To encourage more people to donate blood, Coca-Cola Sabco drove awareness and marketing campaigns in various companies and communities, and also supplied blood donors with refreshments.
One of the beneficiaries, a 17 year old that heads a family in Rakai receives his cow with its calf. The cow delivered on its way to the venue of hand-over.

UGANDA | Fight against poverty and malnutrition Helping families headed by children to become self-sufficient. In partnership with Christian NGO Send A Cow Uganda, Century Bottling Company helped 10 of these homes fight against poverty and malnutrition by training them in animal production and organic farming. For the project, Century Bottling Company provided 10 in-calf high breed heifers to 10 of these families in the Rakai District, one of the areas worst hit by HIV/Aids in Uganda. The children, for whom life is a daily challenge, were organised into several groups, each headed by adults who trained them in income-generating activities, including organic agriculture, animal husbandry and crop-growing, with the aim of creating self-sustaining homes. With each home required to give the first-born female calf to another vulnerable family, it is hoped the project will expand to about 50 households over the next three years.
SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2009

Beverages Vietnam and Coca-Cola South East Asia introduced the Tt for the Poor programme

" To help spread some new year cheer, Coca-Cola "

35

MOzAMBIQUE | Assistance for needy children Coca-Cola Sabco in Mozambique collected clothes and other goods for 200 children at the Remar Youth Centre. Remar (Rehabilitation of Socially-Rejected People) is a Christian non-governmental organisation, which focuses primarily on drug users, but also helps orphaned children, the homeless, and other needy people. Founded in Spain in 1982, it operates in more than 60 countries. In June, following 10 successful camps in which over 700 young cricketers had participated, a Super Camp was held at the Prince of Wales Grounds in Moratuwa to showcase the cricket skills of the 70 best players selected from the various camps. After playing six T20 matches, five super players were selected. One of the five, Lahiru M. Jayaratne, was picked for the Sri Lankan Schools Under-19 National T20 team, and bagged one of the `man of the match' titles. Manish Chaturvedi, Country Manager: Sri Lanka and Maldives, said the initiative provided a "great opportunity to encourage and support young, aspiring cricketers at grassroots level, who can grow to be great cricketers themselves. We look forward to organising more such initiatives in the future." SOUTH AFRICA | Empowering the youth Coca-Cola Fortune donated R100 000 to the Champion Development's Trust, whose vision is to empower youth to take a stand against the negative influences surrounding them in society, through their involvement in sport, life skills and team-building programmes. The organisation also formally partnered with the Umzingisi Foundation, making available R150 000, which allowed the foundation to grow its After-school Youth Development through Sport (YDS) Project, by establishing a third Nelson Mandela Bay growth point at the George Botha Sports Centre in KwaNoxolo.

YOUTh EMPOWERMENT
SRI LANKA | Youth development through cricket Sri Lankan president Mahinda Rajapaksa praised Coca-Cola's efforts to uplift cricket at Sri Lankan schools, through its 18-month Coca-Cola Cricket Pathway initiative, launched in collaboration with the Aravinda de Silva Cricket Foundation in 2008. With cricket being Sri Lanka's most popular sport, the initiative introduced an ongoing series of cricket development camps at schools throughout the country, with the aim of identifying and nurturing young cricket talent. Trainers at the camps, which were conducted in international cricket stadiums, included the country's top coaches, along with cricket legends like Roshan Mahanama, Hashan Tillakeratne and Aravinda de Silva himself.

36

The YDS Project ­ a street outreach-based programme that focuses on out-of school youth, young adults and adolescents ­ uses innovative techniques and activities to address various social and health topics. Coca-Cola Fortune is also determined to improve the lives of street kids, by getting them back into the classroom through the Joshua Project in Jeffreys Bay, which is run in conjunction with Media Works. The purpose of this initiative is to help street kids better themselves, so they do not have to live on the streets. The children attend classes willingly during the day, completing lessons on a computer, which are then marked by a facilitator.

also determined to improve the lives of street kids "
UGANDA | Supporting road safety Century Bottling Company once again joined in the fight against the country's high accident rate through its participation in Arrive Alive Uganda, a coalition of 10 corporate firms driving the implementation of safer road practices. The coalition, of which Century Bottling Company is one of the founding members, lobbies government bodies, the Ugandan police force and other relevant groups to enforce road safety principles, with the aim of reducing accidents.
SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 2009

" Coca-Cola fortune is

OThER | Local Needs driven
SOUTH AFRICA | Community support: Disabled On 19 November 2009, Coca-Cola Fortune showed their support for disabled people by sponsoring and participating in an annual golf day organised by Tswellang Special School in Mangaung. The money that was raised from this event was used to purchase kitchen and dining room equipment for the school. "Without Coca-Cola Fortune's sponsorship and participation as well as initiative displayed on the green, the day would not have been such a great success" said Chris Erasmus ­ School Co-ordinator

37

TO

MAKE

A

G

INUIN

O

NT

· 2 009 ·

For enquiries, please contact Coca-Cola Sabco (Pty)Ltd on: Tel: +27 41 395 4060 · Fax: +27 41 374 4266 Email: nmzimba@ccsabco.co.za
For a specific country request, please contact the country representative: Cambodia Ethiopia Kenya Mozambique Namibia Nepal +855 12 834 116 +25 1 11 2763 681 +254 206 998 000 +258 2 1 400 189 +264 613 207 000 +997 143 506 02 South Africa Sri Lanka Tanzania Uganda Vietnam +27 41 395 4060 +94 1 12 487 700 +255 222 700 700 +256 312 365 00 +848 896 1000

Further information can be obtained at www.cocacolasabco.com

www.simonSAYS.co.za

DI
FFERENC

E

C

