RGE Group

Social and Corporate Sustainability report 2010

Contents

· ·

Page 2 Page 3

Facts & figures Top Management summary & introduction

·

Environmental practices

Page 4 Greenhouse gas reduction Page 5 Energy Savings Page 6 Management of Transport Page 7 Environmental Management system Page 8 REACH & RoSHH controls Page 9 Noise reduction Page 10 Sustainable Material sourcing Page 11 Landfill waste reduction Page 12 Recycling and reuse Page 13 Water management

Considering all options to provide the best and remain successfully
Timeline
Joined Global Compact Initiative First COP submitted Second COP due

·

Social Provision

Health & Safety in the workplace Personal development & Training Community relations and continuous development United Nations Global Compact criteria and endorsement Human Rights, anti-corruption & anti-bribery position

·

Economic Provision

Product Life cycle assessments Local economy consideration & provision Design & research Global reports

Management leadership

Accreditations Group Organisation chart Worldwide contacts

2

Contents
RGE Engineering Co Whittlesey UK RGE Engineering Co Godmanchester. UK RGE Group HQ RGE Yate Ltd Bristol UK RGE Engineering Co Alconbury Logistics. UK

In 2009 RGE Group made a commitment to follow and uphold the 10 principles of the Global Compact Initiative due to our global presents on most continents.

RGE as a group understand that this is a long term commitment and set manageable key process indicators (KPI) to monitor our successes. The KPI,s are posted regularly at all of our manufacturing sites so that there is full transparency and as an incentive for each site to improve and be the best.

The 3 cover a range of criteria from operational efficiency to waste management and total recycling.

Our contribution may be small in the vast context of the 10 principles but we firmly believe that our efforts to demonstrate good Corporate Social Responsibility and its sustainability will show our customers that we intend to survive and expand by remaining competitive and treating our employees with respect in order to maintain their valued Knowledge and services.
RGE USA Inc. Tennessee, USA

RGE Baltic UAB Siauliai, Lithuania RGE Shenzhen Ltd Shenzhen, China

RGE Europe RGE Grand Marinha Grande Denmark Portugal

3

Sustainable Indicators
2009 Yes Nil Nil Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 2009 2010 Target Yes Nil Nil Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 2010 Environmental KPI,s 2009 2010 Target WIP 5%

Social KPI,s

Global Compact Signatory Number of fatalities Number of reportable accidents Bonus Scheme (UK initially) Inter-site training worldwide Pension scheme Minimum wage (all sites) Minimum wage (all sites) Regulated hours (Amount country dependant) Holidays commitments (legal requirement)

Economic KPI,s

Carbon dioxide monitoring due to energy 0 Energy consumption per moulding produced % 7% Tonnage of recycled plastic recycled 681.65 Tonnage of cardboard sent for recycling 71.77 Tonnage of plastic wrapping sent for recycling 48.10 Waste oil sent for recycling 27.04 Tonnage of waste going to landfill 140.16 Scrap metals sent for recycling 25.60 Tonnage of purging sent for recycling 82.23 Hazardous waste 9.94 Waste plastic unsuitable for regrinding & reuse in process 30.40 Monitoring for RoSHH regulations Yes Monitoring for REACH regulations Yes Managing Environmental system to the principle of ISO14001 Yes Improvements in lighting of working environments Yes Monitoring of Power Factor Yes Global Compact Signatory Yes Leadership & Management Style 2009

Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 2010

Cost of scrap % Cost of reworking defective products% Bulk purchasing to save cost and CO2 reduction Financial contribution by manufacturing locally Research and design development ISO9001-2008 Quality Management system In house testing of products Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes

Data collection improvement The data collected is based on 5 manufacturing sites which has been fragmented due to the non recording of some KPI',s in China due to this site being slower in processing data. This is being addressed and will Show in the next COP due in 2011

Membership of approved test houses to reduce costs Local Managers (Worldwide) Equal opportunity policy worldwide Balanced male v female workforce Muti-racial workforce (all sites) Gender tolerance worldwide Right to join a trade union or body

1 27 Yes 65/35% Yes Yes Yes

2 29 Yes 70/30% Yes Yes Yes

4

5

Environmental Indicators
RGE Engineering Co sites in United Kingdom Godmanchester & Whittlesey Mwh 11.36 10.35 2007 2008 2009

Electrical energy

RGE Group have invested heavily in new state of the art machines and equipment at many of the overseas plants that will help reduce energy usage, save money and allow further investment and drastically reduce our carbon footprint.

The carbon footprint due to electrical energy is one of the key performance monitors being analysed. Though regular analysis any peaks that are unexpected are investigated allowing swift correction and improved production costs.

9.13

RGE Engineering Co. facilities in the UK are part of the Climate Change Levy scheme run by the Department of Energy & Climate change which gives a significant rebate on the levy in supporting energy efficiency measures and low carbon technologies.

By monitoring the energy used we now have definite proof that savings are being made and our efforts in reducing CO2 emissions is being effective. Without monitoring you can only guess. Over the next few years we intend to monitor all our sites worldwide in a similar way

Currently we are investigating the possibility of placing a wind turbine at one of our sites that would provide us with around 25% of our energy demand saving cost, reducing CO2 and giving us more energy for expansion which is not possible at the moment.

Lighting

In order to ensure good quality products we understand the need to have good lighting for our workforce, not just to see the product properly but to improve the general atmosphere of the internal surroundings. We have just completed one of our largest sites by installing the latest T5 technology lighting which has improved the lighting by 300 Lux and reduced energy and maintenance costs The savings in energy is also in line with the % saving we needed to make to keep our Climate Change Levy rebate.

6

Environmental Activity
RoSHH and REACH Our customers are extremely concerned with the substances that are involved in the manufacture of injected moulded components. From the raw plastic material, colorants, lubricants and other additives that give the finished components their unique properties. Whilst RGE Group are down the line suppliers of components we still have a responsibility to assure our customers that our products do not contain any substance that maybe hazard to health. In order to comply with the every changing chemicals and additives that are classed as hazardous to Health we keep in constant contact with our suppliers to ensure that they are meeting legislations such as Restrictions of Substances hazardous to Health (RoSHH) and Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH).

RGE Group are fully committed to making a contribution towards improving the environment. Although not registered to ISO14001our procedures are drawn up and reflect all the elements of this standard by carrying out the following across all sites. Records are kept for 4 years.

Recycling of paper & card Recycling of plastic bags and shrink film Recycling of purgings Reuse or recycling of scrap products Lifecycle of returns of plastic without metal Recycling of waste hydraulic oil Recycling of waste metals Recycling of aerosol cans Recycling of drink cans Recycling of electrical & electronic equipment

Packaging

In order to minimise the depletion of natural resources RGE Group were proactive in manufacturing a moulding tool that could produce packaging containers which used only recycled plastic materials. These containers could be used to transport RGE products to our customers and be collected for return and reuse. This reduced the amount of cardboard we needed to be purchased and put material that may have gone to landfill to good use. These plastic containers, once emptied, could be "knocked down" and flat stacked so that vehicles could fully loaded reducing the number of transport movements that would have been required.

Whilst it is our aim to protect the end user from any unseen hazards we are also very conscious of our responsibility in protecting our own worldwide workforce during the manufacture of the end produce.

7

Environmental Activity
Material Purchasing In order to reduce manufacturing costs and the impact on the environmental through vehicle movements, we aim to bulk purchase raw materials and hold in silos. To preserve natures diminishing natural resources we work closely with our customers to use industrial grade materials. which are waste material streams recompounded to give the same finish and strength characteristics or agree a percentage of recycled materials that can be used in their components.

Noise RGE Group have 135 injection moulding machines worldwide which could produce a lot of noise if not fully maintained.

We respect the fact that all workers have the right to work in a reasonable environment where they can speak without shouting and can be heard without strain

We ensure all our facilities meet or exceed the Local Noise regulations by carrying out routine inspection of noise levels, Should these levels be exceeded in certain areas due to the nature of the process, employees are provided with hearing protection and additional breaks to ensure their comfort and wellbeing.

When installing outdoor equipment such as fans , compactors bailers and regrind bays their positioning is always considered to reduce any impact on the local community.

Water reduction As part of our policy we need to reduce the consumption of water used in our processes and have set ourselves a target to reduce this consumption by 5% by the end of 2011. Our processes have closed loop recirculation systems so most of our losses of water are through evaporation. An action plan is now in place to investigate how we can minimise this lose and actively reduce the need constantly replenish.

Movement of transport in and out of the facilities is restricted between 08.00 ­ 16.00 even though 24 hour working is normal. Movements to and from the compactors and bailers are restricted to daytime movements only with fork lift movement vastly restricted at night. By considering the local we have found that complaint are virtually non existent.

8

Social Responsibility

Health & Safety RGE Directors and Managers are totally committed to the safety and mental wellbeing of its workforce. Regardless of continent the same inductions and procedures are followed at all RGE sites to ensure we meet our own standards and the countries national standard.

At all sites we have Human Resources personnel who can interact fully with the workforce in the local languages to handle and help with any concerns that they may have relating to pay and conditions.

On sites where we do not have a Health and Safety Manager an Independent Health & Safety service is contracted to look after and check all the required areas that could effect the wellbeing of the workforce.

Key areas that are checked yearly are:

Manual Handling Many of the workforce are required to carry out some sort of manual tasks which could include lifting, fork lift truck driving, pump trucks, use of slings, hoists or overhead cranes. In order to prevent stains and accidents all persons carrying out these actions are fully trained, either in a classroom or by a professional trainer prior to being asked to carry out these tasks. Should a person feel that they are not fully capable to carry out the task asked of them they are encouraged to asked for additional training without fear of retribution. Fist aid At all sites and on all shifts there are a number of workers and supervisors that have been trained in the local hospital on how to carry out basic first aid whilst a paramedic is called to administer further treatment. 5s In order to reduce the chances of accidents, trips and falls a rolling 5s programme is gradually being introduced that will ensure that "everything has a place and there is a place for everything"

Temperature Lighting levels Accidents Dust Fumes Working hours Noise Adequate work space Safety equipment Fire Safety

Any deviation observed are documented and presented to the Site Operations Manager for action locally or through the UK Headquarters.

9

Social Responsibility
This action has had tremendous benefits:

Training and Personnel Development We know that the survival of any company is only as good as its workforce. Their knowledge, understanding and expertise of the processes within a business is paramount to the companies, growth and financial stability.

By looking after our workforce responsibly we retain their commitment to providing a stable long term future for the business. It is therefore essential that we foster this dedication through training, learning new skills and promoting within.

Our core business depends on the skills of engineers who are gradually disappearing due to the lack of support. We therefore have an apprenticeship scheme that will train the next generation of engineers and designers.

As vacancies appear we always try, wherever possible to promote within the Group, giving continuity of service plus holding onto and developing their skills and hands on knowledge of many of the companies procedures.

Better understanding of cross site procedures Knowledge that you are working for a global business Better understanding of materials and services A reduction in language problems A fuller understanding of the cultural difference Increases in labour productivity Getting to know who is who and their responsibilities Seeing that all the sites work in a similar fashion Knowing more about the company you work for Proof that there is no discrimination Give a competitive advantage in the market Gives a highly skilled workforce Increases Productivity & Motivation Improves staff morale and loyalty. Brings new ideas

Those lower down the skills level are not forgotten, they receive basic training in lean manufacturing which gives them a full understanding of what is required and a better our business

As we moved into the Baltic and China, the skills required to support the business, whilst adequate were insufficient to fully support the business with the quality levels expected. To close this gap we have been supporting these sites with our UK engineers whilst training their engineers in the UK

10

Corporate Responsibility
Research and Development This is seen as a must in order to keep up with the competition and a high cost is placed in developing, designing and prototyping new products. We provide a dedicated team of designers in the UK who create new products with flare using new and recycled materials. Our designers also work with our customers helping with their designs and projects which invariable lead to orders being placed for tooling. With RGE Group having around 200 toolmakers and tool designers working out of our China and Portugal tool making facilities. we can get a quick turn Around from samples to customer approval. We have testing facilities on all sites allowing us to react quickly in getting products ready for 3RD party accreditation to National and International standards. This give us an advantage in being very quick from conception of a product to market.

RGE Directors are very hands on and visit the overseas site on a very regular basis. Not just to do business but to talk to the workforce so they feel part of a large worldwide team, all striving to create a prosperous company that will secure their jobs for many year to come.

This action also show the workforce that everybody is treated equally regardless of colour, creed, gender or social standing.

During these visits the opportunity is taken to action as many concerns as quickly as possible so the workforce are seen as being heard and not ignored. This is seen as very positive move in the far east where accommodation and kitchen facilities are provided by the company.

These visits show the local workforce that the directors of the company are interested in their welfare and allows them to have face to face contact should they have urgent concerns that may need addressing urgently.

The directors have an open door policy that allows an individual to freely speak their mind. This builds confidence and trust in the workforce and has long term benefits for the company.

11

Corporate Responsibility

RGE Group take great pride in providing a workplace environment and a corporate system that meets the 10 principles of the Global Compact. To reinforce and communicate this commitment to all our worldwide facilities we have written documents signed by the Managing Director. These document or policies are reviewed yearly which are displayed openly on all sites.

Ethical Trading Policy RGE recognises that its group activities have many impacts on those individuals or groups who are affected directly or indirectly by our commercial activities. With this in mind we endeavour to follow the guidelines set down by the Ethical Trading Initiative.

RGE Whittlesey United Kingdon

We will as far a practicably possible:Show positive care for the environment Support responsible, fair and sustainable trading practices Treat employees fairly and equitable Respect basic human rights civil rights Give opportunity for development Give fair remuneration for a working day Ensure Working conditions are safe and hygienic Actively prevent all discrimination Seek to ensure child labour is not used in our supply chain Act in a socially responsible manner Operate ethically and with integrity We will support the UN Global Compact initiative We will regularly develop our ETP in line with our purchasing activities

RGE Godmanchester United Kingdom

Gordon Leach RGE Group Managing Director January 2010

RGE China

RGE Baltic, Lithuania

12

Corporate Responsibility

RGE Group have to remain competitive to survive. One of the largest expenses after wages is energy. We need electrical energy to run our machines and service 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. If we do not have energy we stop. We have therefore embedded into our systems a policy that will help reduce energy need, reduce our carbon emissions` and save money that can be used on continuous improvements projects to reduce energy requirement further.

Energy Policy Commitment RGE Group is committed to responsible energy management and wherever economically possible will invest in machines and ancillary equipment that give energy efficiencies throughout their manufacturing plants and premises. Policy The policy aim is to control and continuously improve the consumption of energy in order to: Remain competitive within our markets. Improve productivity. Avoid unnecessary expenditure. Protect the environment both locally and globally. Sustain the useful life of fossil fuels for future generations. Investigate the use of alternative energy methods. Continued reduction of our Carbon footprint Objectives Create a culture within the group that looks at all areas of energy usage and the potential savings. Buy electricity at the lowest cost on medium to long term contacts. Use energy in the most efficient manner by managing our working methods. Reduce CO2 emissions wherever practical through reduced energy consumption. Investigate and invest in green energy. Aims To actively monitor our energy usage. Provide management, information that could affect future decision making. To provide feedback to all personnel through quarterly newsletters. To show achievements against management targets KPI's.

Gordon Leach RGE Group Managing Director January 2010

13

Corporate Responsibility

RGE Group products are totally reliant on oil based raw materials which are a natural resource that is being gradually depleted. We want to use these materials responsibly to produce high quality products that have a long life cycle that can be recycled back into new material at the end of their life cycle. The products we manufacture do not contain Substances that are hazardous to Health. This means when recycled at the end of product life the material will be safe for the next generation of products

Environmental Policy RGE GROUP is a leading Injection moulding, tool making and design company working primarily in the field of white goods and office chair components. The company supplies products on a worldwide basis and fully understands that our products, processes and human activities have an effect on the depletion of natural resources. Improving our environment is a key element in our aim to prevent or minimize pollution through continuous improvement and give environmental consideration when making business decisions Our environmental policy outlines our commitment to ensure: a framework is established for regularly setting objectives ,targets and responsibilities. Compliance with current legislation, local & International regulations and standards. Good relations with the community by minimizing any nuisance arising from our activities, personnel or transportation. Consideration of any environmental impact when designing new products or services which includes the possibilities of using recyclable , materials & returnable packaging. All personnel and contracted staff will have knowledge of environmental aspects through regular feedback . We will actively encourage our suppliers to consider the environmental impacts of their products. This will be achieved through our environment management system and project team being robust and active enough to give encouragement and involvement to all personnel and interested parties so that our environmental goals can be met.

Gordon Leach RGE Group Managing Director January 2010

14

We understand that to continue to employ people at our facilities around the world, we have to manufacture quality products, give on time supplies and services that will retain our customers commitment to RGE Group as a supplier for as long as possible. Retaining these customers secures the prosperity of the group, allowing expansion, modernisation and new technology. We are happy to put our objectives into words and place in all our global facilities.

Quality Policy Mission Statement The mission of RGE Group of Companies is to provide a worldwide service in technical design, innovation, sales, tool making, manufacture, assembly, printing and delivery and build on our history of product excellence and technology innovation to provide the highest-quality and most reliable products and services to our customers world-wide.

RGE Group specialise in the field of tool making and injection moulding for office seating, white goods, industrial and other domestic appliances.

Quality Statement The RGE Group of Companies Quality Policy is a guide for everybody and is based on the principles outlined in the standard ISO 9000-2008. Our customers expect the best and RGE Group aim to be world-class through their expertise, investment, training and understanding of out customer's requirements. Customer satisfaction is our prime aim which will always remain our highest priority. Zero defects is our goal, through continuous improvement and training programs which involve the total workforce. Sacrificing Quality is not an option and the emphasis will always be prevention over detection.

Gordon Leach RGE Group Managing Director January 2010

15

Conservation and Preservation of our Environment ­ Our Commitment

We commit to meet all the requirements of Local Environmental Legislation & Standards, as well as other objectives and obligations we set ourselves. Where it is reasonable and practical we will endeavour to improve upon these requirements.

We will establish environmental goals and targets working towards achieving or exceeding these goals. Each goal being measured and displayed, showing trends.

We will carry out a regular schedule of environmental audits with a commitment to address any and all findings.

We will strive to continuously improve our performance through the regular review of environmental goals and systems.

We will consider the use of recycled materials when designing new products and investigate the use of returnable packaging.

All waste wherever possible, will be separated and sold to minimise the need to go to landfill.

All waste considered hazardous will be removed by a Government approved contractor

We will ensure an adequate level of environmental awareness to our employees through the use of training and information sharing.

We will control pollution through responsible working practices and personnel.

Gordon Leach RGE Group Managing Director

16

Equality Opportunity Policy The Company aims to be an equal opportunities employer and undertakes to apply objective criteria to assess merit. It aims to ensure that no job applicant, employee or worker receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of race, colour, national or ethnic origins, sex, marital status, sexuality, disability, membership or non-membership of trade union, spent convictions" of ex-offenders, class, age, political or religious belief. Selection criteria and procedure will be reviewed to ensure that individuals are selected, promoted and treated on the basis of their relevant merits and abilities. All employees will be given equal opportunity and, where appropriate and possible, special training to enable them to progress within the Company. The Company is committed to a programme of action to make this policy effective, to minimise the possibility of discrimination and find means of combating it whenever it arises. Definitions Direct Discrimination occurs when a person is treated less favourably than others in similar circumstances on the grounds of race, colour, national or ethnic origins, sex, marital status, sexuality, disability, membership or non-membership of trade union, "spent convictions" of ex-offenders, class, age, political or religious belief. Indirect Discrimination occurs when a condition or requirement is imposed which adversely affects one particular group considerably more than another and cannot be strictly justified in terms of requirements for performing the job. Harassment is defined as unwanted, unreciprocated and/or uninvited comments, looks, actions, suggestions or physical contact that is found objectionable and offensive and that might threaten an employee's job security, or create an intimidating working environment. Harassment is particularly liable to occur as part of sexual or racial discrimination. Victimisation is defined as singling out of an individual for harsh treatment, or unfair action/sanction. The Company's Responsibility as an Employer In order for the Equal Opportunities Policy to be fully effective, the responsibility for ensuring that its terms are adhered to will lie with the Directors. It is, however, the responsibility of each Manager and all other supervisory staff actively to promote equality of opportunity within their own programmes and spheres of responsibility. It should not be overlooked that harassment can take many forms e.g. age, religion, skin colour, sexual preference, disability - even dialect or accent - can all form the basis for unwanted aggression and attention. Victimisation in the widest sense of the word is also a form of harassment and those exposed to or subject to such action need protection. The Company will inform its employees of their responsibilities and opportunities under the Equal Rights Legislation; will make sure that the Company's Equal Opportunities Policy is known to all staff. The Company will take disciplinary action against employees who are found to infringe its Equal Opportunities Policy. Expectation from its Employees While the main responsibility for providing equal opportunity lies with the Company, individual employees at all levels have responsibilities too. Eradicating discrimination depends on everyone's collaboration. Employees should not harass, abuse or intimidate other employees on any grounds. Employees should co-operate with measures introduced by the Company to make sure there is equal opportunity and non-discrimination. Employees must not victimise individuals on the grounds that they have made complaints or provided information about discrimination or harassment. Harassment

17

AntiAnti-Harassment Policy The Company declares itself opposed to harassment in any form. The experience of harassment is acknowledged as a valid ground for a person making complaints under the Grievance Procedure. The Company will not condone harassment of any employee within the Company whether these acts are committed by members of the public or by colleagues. Nor will the Company condone any acts of harassment by employees against members of the public. Individuals suspected of harassment will be liable to disciplinary action which may lead to dismissal.

The Company requires all employees to respect each other and to understand that behaviour that they may find acceptable may not be regarded as such by others. Harassment (i.e. foisting one's unwelcome attentions on another employee (usually) with sexual intent, victimisation for whatever reason including a person's age, colour, religion, sexual preference, accent or dialect, disability etc) is entirely unacceptable in terms of the above and will be regarded as gross misconduct. Harassment can take place via words as well as actions, via the telephone and e-mail as well as when face to face. Managers and Supervisors are required to act and react to all employees (and any other persons with whom they may be in contact) with respect and dignity. Managers and Supervisors are also required to ensure those under their control act in a similar way in their relationships with each other. They must immediately correct and take appropriate action, when faced or notified of any unacceptable behaviour. Managers and Supervisors are expected to familiarise themselves with and apply the company policy to ensure the company procedure in the event of an employee wishing to raise a complaint is known by all. Such complaints will be dealt with immediately, objectively and fairly. Managers and Supervisors should: Encourage genuine concerns to be raised rather than be hidden. Endeavour to eradicate victimisation and/or retaliation. Make employees aware that under the Criminal Justice Act 1994, or the equivalent in other countries that harassment is a criminal offence punishable by a substantial fine and/or a prison sentence of up to six months and under the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 to unlimited fines and imprisonment of up to five years.. This may be more in other countries.

Disability Discrimination In line with the Disability Discrimination Act 1995 and its equivalent in other countries .it is Company policy not to discriminate against disabled persons whether in, or applying, for employment. To achieve this policy the following procedures must be applied: Job advertisements will provide equal opportunity to all applicants and will not discriminate in any way against disabled persons. Disabled applicants for employment will not be considered less favourably than those without disabilities, except where there is a substantial reason preventing employment. Consideration will be given to making reasonable adjustments, where practicable, to the workplace and to methods of working, to accommodate disabled employees. In order to be able to do this, there is a responsibility on employees to make the Company aware if they have any impairments/conditions, which may constitute a disability under the terms of the Act. Appointments of disabled people will be made on the same terms and conditions as other comparable employees without disabilities. Disabled employees will be given equal opportunity in applications for training and promotion and will not be considered any less favourably because of their disability. Any acts of discrimination on the grounds of disability should be reported to the Managing Director. Allegations of discrimination on the grounds of disability will be investigated and disciplinary action will be taken against anyone found to have acted in any way which is in breach of this policy.

18

.

Age Equality The Company will provide a working environment free from discrimination on the grounds of age and recognises the valuable contributions made by staff of all ages. Many details of this policy relate to older staff, as they are the ones most likely to experience age discrimination but the Company will seek to fulfil its duty of care to all staff, irrespective of age. The Company will not discriminate on the grounds of age in the way it recruits and selects staff. Application forms will state explicitly the Company's commitment to equality. In order not to discriminate against young workers, the Company will recognise skills and potential, as well as experience. All instances of age discrimination or age harassment will be logged, and will be taken as seriously as any other discrimination claim. Age harassment is viewed as a serious offence and may lead to dismissal. The Company will consider any requests to work beyond 65. All employees shall have equal rights to training, promotion and other aspects of career development. Age will not be used to justify a failure to promote or train any employee. The Company will ensure that there is no age discrimination in relation to dismissal of staff. In particular, if a redundancy situation occurs the Company will ensure that age is not a factor in the selection of those to be made redundant. The Senior Management Team are responsible for taking the lead in challenging discriminatory behaviour on the part of managers or staff and creating a positive, inclusive ethos. Employees are responsible for ensuring that they do not do anything that discriminates against anyone on the grounds of their age. Any acts of discrimination on the grounds of age are reported to the Personnel Manager. If, in the course of working an employee you suffers age discrimination from members of the public, the Company will take appropriate action and provide appropriate support.

Sexual Harassment The company will not tolerate any form of sexual harassment which is identified by the following Unwanted/unwelcome sexual advances or promises/threats related to sexual. Activities will be considered as a serious offence under the disciplinary procedure. Such conduct includes both physical action and verbal comment of a sexual nature, independent of gender. The appropriate penalty for such an offence will be either a final written warning or dismissal.

Any allegation of harassment Regardless of type will be dealt with seriously and confidentially and employees making such an with allegation will be protected against victimisation

19

We firmly support the 10th United Nations Global Compact Principle of corruption and will not condone any corruption or bribery activities within our global business transactions. We believe that business should be fair and open to all based on company strength, talent, expertise, ideas, and technology advances.

Corruption and Anti Bribery Policy Any employee, agent, representative or third party acting on behalf of RGE Group are expected to be fully transparent in their activities in obtaining work, products, materials or personnel. This is a explicit requirement in providing a fair and honest platform for promoting our business worldwide. RGE Group is a Family Business founded on hard work and integrity. Using any unfair advantage to gain any form of business would be a serious risk and could threaten the long term relationships we have built up with our customers. We have therefore set out guidelines that will not be tolerated by the group. We will carry out our business fairly, honestly and openly by having an open book policy that is completely transparent. Our payment terms and conditions will be clear and understandable and we will maintain our records for the countries legal time period, in a manner that is clear and fully auditable We, our agents, representatives or third parties acting on our behalf will not make bribe in order to gain a business advantage. We, our agents, representatives or third parties acting on our behalf will not accept bribes or agree to accept bribes in order to influence any business decision. We will not knowingly allow business or make business decisions with partners who do not accept our family principles that would ruin our reputation and companies values. We will set give a clear definition within our company policies for avoiding direct or indirect bribery and what constitutes forms of bribery. These could be gifts, holidays, vouchers, entertainment or even promises of one or any many of these items. We will keep clear, precise and updated records of any donations that may be give to charitable causes that could be constituted as a potential bribe or conflict of business interest. We will give clear instruction to all our workforce, agents and representatives including our business partners through induction, good communication and through our company newsletters. We will periodically review our policy and update through experience, best practices and legal requirements. We will keep to these principles and guidelines even in times of difficulty.

20

Economic Consideration

Product Life cycle assessment During the design of new products, full and careful consideration is given to the raw materials that will be used. These materials are specially selected for their properties whether for strength, flexibility, cosmetic, fire resistance, UV stability or anti static resistance. Many of these materials are expensive and by working closely with the raw material manufacturers we are able to come up with modified materials to give the best value without compromising the design requirements. Our product designs are normally expected to have a life cycle of 10 years or beyond ,maintaining their basic characteristics so that at the end of the life cycle, the materials can be reprocessed and reused within the industry reducing the dependence on new oil based materials.

During product design, consideration is given to recycled materials and industrial grade materials that will give similar characteristics and at reduced costs but still allow for recycling at the end of life cycle.

Recycling We aim to recycle as much as possible within the group to reduce the reliance on landfill. Projects have been conducted and are now in place to recycle 70% of what was classed as waste only a few years ago. Current waste streams that reduce cost and generate financial gain. Paper and card ­ Bailed and sold Waste hydraulic oil ­ removed at cost for cleaning and repurchased at a reduced price Plastic bags and shrink wrap ­ Bailed and sold IT equipment ­ taken free Purging ­ sold Waste moulding that insufficient to regrind ­ sold Waste plastic granules ­ sold Waste products ­ reground and reused were possible in the process

End of Life recycling We offer all our customers the facility to return their plastic parts (minus metal and foams) which we will regrind and past through our recycling loop

21

Economic Consideration

Global Compact Reporting RGE Group signed up to the 10 Principles of the Global Compact voluntarily because we genuinely believe that everybody deserves an equal opportunity to earn a living, develop skills, have friends and family and socialise without fear of retribution.

Without having these principles a company is failing in its basic requirements of looking after and protecting it workforce that it has trained to levels that lead to its financial stability and growth.

It is in our interest, to invest in our workforce, train them in new technology that will drive us forward and reward them adequately for their service. In this way, our workforce remains loyal and we retain the knowledge necessary for our industry.

We always try to employee from within the company when vacancies occur. It is therefore in the interest of the employees to continuously improve and move up the wage scale.

22

We support the 10 Principles of Global Compact

Human Rights

* Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and * Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.

Labour

* Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; * Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; * Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and * Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.

Environment

* Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; * Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and * Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.

AntiAnti-Corruption

* Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.

We will endeavour to pass the 10 Principles to our suppliers and down the supply chain

http://www.rgegroup.com/contact.html

23

