Communication on Progress Year: 2009-2010
Tata Teleservices Limited (TTSL) is leading the way for Tata Groups presence in the telecom sector. Incorporated in 1996, Tata Teleservices is the pioneer of CDMA 1x technology in India, and after launching mobile operations in January 2005 under the brand name Tata Indicom, today now enjoys a pan-India presence, with existing operations in Indias 22 telecom circles. The company also leads the market in fixed wireless telephony, and for the last five consecutive quarters, the companys network has been rated the "Least Congested" by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India. Now TTSL also has a presence in GSM space, thanks to its November 2008 strategic alliance with Japans NTT DOCOMO. The joint venture now offers differentiated products and services under the TATA DOCOMO brand name. TATA DOCOMO marks a significant milestone in Indian telecom, redefining the industry with its innovative per-second tariff option, or "Pay for What You Use" pricing paradigm. TTSLs bouquet of telephony services includes mobile, wireless desktop, public booth, wireline and enterprise solutions. Four brands comprise Tata Teleservices Limited: Virgin Mobile, Tata Walky (fixed wireless phones), Tata Photon family (different options of wireless mobile broadband access), and T24 (GSM mobile services, through a strategic partnership with Indian company Future Group). In December 2008, Tata Teleservices announced a unique reverse equity swap strategic agreement between its telecom tower subsidiary, Wireless TT Info-Services Limited (WTTISL), and Quippo Telecom Infrastructure Limited (QTIL). Kicking off operations with 18,000 towers, this combined entity has become the largest independent entity in telecom, with the highest tenancy ratios in the industry. Today, the WTTISL and QTIL partnership has a portfolio of around 35,000 towers. Currently, Tata Teleservices Ltd, combined with Tata Teleservices (Maharashtra) Ltd, serves nearly 65 million customers in over 420,000 towns and villages across the country, providing top-quality telephony services.

Commitment Statement by MD We, at Tata Teleservices Limited are completely committed to the Principles of UNs Global Compact. Being a Tata Group Company, widely known for its value system and corporate citizenship, we have our own very clear mandate on ethical conduct and responsibility to the society and communities around us. Every employee, vendor or partner who is associated with us adheres to the tenets of the Tata Code of Conduct; which are all encompassing even from the UN Global Compact view point. We are happy to be associated with Global Compact and commit ourselves to propagate and create awareness about it within our circle of influence. Anil Kumar Sardana MD, Tata Teleservices Limited

Details of Contact Person Ms Sangeeta Robinson Email: Sangeeta.robinson@tatatel.co.in Phone: 011-66558640 Fax: 011-66558100

Principle 1: : Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Commitment & Policies Tata Teleservices Limited (TTSL) is committed to promote and protect the human rights of all its employees and all other stakeholders. TTSL abides by Tata Code of Conduct which is robust document governing the conduct of Tata Group Companies and their employees. The code in its Clause 4 discusses being an equal opportunity employer while also addressing issues like Diversity, Equality and right to privacy. Other Policies at TTSL that support this:

  

Employee Well being and Safety policy Affirmative Action & Code of Conduct on Affirmative Action Sexual Harassment Policy

The Code of Conduct also applies to our suppliers and channel partners. The Policy on Affirmative Action elucidates equal employment opportunities for the underprivileged sections of society which includes persons belonging to SC/ST and persons with disabilities. The organization has undertaken a number of initiatives which are geared towards Education, Health, Vocational Training and Income generation as part of Affirmative Action. The policy of Employee Well Being promotes and ensures the safety of employees and their overall development. The organization has an Employee Volunteering programme which encourages employees to volunteer for social causes under the guidance of the CS Department. Actions Taken On Affirmative Action: Education: Scholarships for education are provided to deserving SC/ST students and physically handicapped students to pursue their education. Books, stationery and school uniforms are sponsored for students belonging to underprivileged classes.

Health : Health Check up camps are organized for underprivileged communities across all Circles. Distribution of PCO booths to physically challenged persons and candidates belonging to SC/ST communities. Prosthetics and appliances for the physically challenged are also distributed. Employment: 5% of the total deployed workforce belongs to underprivileged sections, with no compromise on merit. Vocational Training: Opportunities for summer internship are given to the students belonging to SC/ST

For Employees:
Portals like Gyan Tarang provide employees with a training calendar and opportunities to register themselves for training. TTSL recently established the Academy for Sales & Retail Management (ASRM) that facilitates the training needs of employees. Women Employees are provided mentoring and training to grow into leadership roles. The Womens Support Group is a forum that mentors younger women employees.

Measurement of Outcomes  Darpan, an Employee Engagement Index, is an annual survey conducted to gauge Employee Engagement that also details the number of people hired/ benefited under Affirmative Action The organization has received a number of awards for being an Employee Friendly Organization  Employee Well Being Index, measures the well being of employees

 Internal Communication Effectiveness Index and Internal Comm Surveys, measure the efficacy of communication initiatives across all 22 Circles and Business Lines and Functions  CS Index rates the sustainability impact of the Corporate Sustainability initiatives being pursued by the Company across 22 Circles.

Principle 2: and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses: Commitment & Policies: The Tata Code of conduct is followed by all Tata Group companies and is a comprehensive document which addresses issues related to Human Rights and Discrimination at the workplace. The Tata Code of Conduct talks about the protection of Human rights in Clause 17 titled ,,Ethical Conduct. To address the issues affecting communities, we have established a Safety Policy, Quality Policy & Environment Policy. Actions Taken 1. The Standard Terms and Conditions signed by all vendors/ suppliers has definite clauses that forbid them to indulge in any Human Rights violations 2. The Tata Code of Conduct governs all our operations 3. All the employees are sign the Tata Code of Conduct when they join the organization 4. Violations under any clause are reported to the Ethics Officer and stringent action is taken against the offender. Outcomes 1. Quarterly Ethics reporting 2. Management of Business Ethics, an annual survey conducted by the central body, Tata Quality Management Services (TQMS) to assess how Group Companies are faring on Ethical Conduct and Management of Business Practices in the right manner.

Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Commitment & Policies The organization follows the Tata Code of Conduct. Clause 4 discusses TTSL being an equal opportunity employer, complying with Local Labour laws and adopting international best practices. Additionally, we ensure that all of our channel partners also abide by the Code of Conduct.

Actions Taken 1. Our SCM department ensures that no Purchase Order is issued unless 3 party quotes are received. 2. All vendors and partners are bound by the Tata Code of Conduct Outcomes Reporting of Ethics cases to Ethics Officer/ Chief Ethics Officer/ MBE.

Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Commitment & Policies Clause 4 & Clause 17 of the Tata Code of Conduct discusses following labour laws and protecting the human rights of individuals. TTSL abides by the law, eliminating all forms for forced or compulsory labour and expects its partners to do the same.

Actions Taken Audits are carried out regularly within the organization. Vendors and Suppliers are expected to check this. Outcomes No Violations

Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labor Commitment & Policies Clause 4 & Clause 17 of the Tata Code of Conduct discusses following of labour laws and protection of individual human rights. The organization abides by labour laws. Tata Code of Conduct and other relevant labour laws are also applicable to local contractors, service providers, suppliers and channel partners. Action Taken Recruitment Policy of the organization The general condition of purchase contract and agreement stipulates the strict adherence to the compliance of all labor laws including non engagement of child labor. All supply chain contracts include this clause. Outcomes No Violations have been reported.

Principle 6: and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment & Policies Tata Teleservices Limited is an equal opportunity employer and is committed to ensuring equal opportunities for people from different walks of life. This is reflected in Clause 4 of the Tata Code of Conduct. This also covers information on employment on merit as well as employees right to privacy. Policies: Affirmative Action, Prevention of Sexual Harassment. Action Taken 1. As per the Tata Code of Conduct, TTSL ensures that there is no discrimination on the basis of gender, race, caste, religion, social status or physical disability. Preference is given for a certain percentage of employees belonging to backward classes and persons with disabilities; provided they meet all qualifications and experience/skills criterion. All recruitment is done on a merit basis to encourage equal employment opportunity. 2. 3. Employees are sensitized about various issues on a regular basis. A sexual harassment committee is present in all Circles to address any issues.

4. An Ethics Officer resides at each Circle to address any concerns, with a Chief Ethics Officer sitting at the Corporate Office. An ethics report is submitted every quarter to the Chief Ethics Officer. Outcomes 1. Number of people employed under affirmative action 2. MBE report 3. Number of cases reported/ found to be genuine/ acted upon.

Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Commitment & Policies Tata Groups Policy on climate change urges all group companies to play a leadership role in climate change. Being knowledgeable, responsive and trustworthy and adopting environmentfriendly technologies, business practices and innovation is encouraged, all while pursuing company growth aspirations to enhance shareholder value. As a Tata Group company, TTSL endeavours to minimize the environmental impact of its business activities by driving initiatives to reduce its carbon footprint and adverse ecological impact. Tata Code of Conduct in ,,Clause 8 lists the following responsibilities: To prevent the wasteful use of natural resources, companies should be Committed to improve the environment, particularly with regard to the emission of greenhouse gases, and shall endeavor to offset the effect of climate change in all spheres of its activities. TTSL has an Environment and Electronic Waste Management Policy and abides by other Statutory Compliances related to Environment like Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 & Noise Pollution (Regulation & Control) Rules, 2000 & Hazardous Waste (Management & Handling) Rules, Air (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 & Air (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Rules,1982.

Action Taken 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. Carbon Footprint Mapping Study has been conducted by TQMS for Tata Teleservices Limited, report currently being formulated. New buildings/offices coming up are designed in an eco friendly manner; existing buildings are implementing CFL bulbs, bio blocks etc 80% of paper used is recycled Formation of Pakriti Eco-Club to generate awareness and sensitisation among TTSL employees Print Manager creates sensitivity among employees to reduce consumption of paper

Outcomes 1. Abatement measures as a result of Carbon Footprint Mapping 2. Reduction in paper consumption 3. Initiatives by Prakriti

Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Commitment & Policies As a Tata Group company, TTSL endeavours to minimize its environmental impact by driving initiatives to reduce negative ecological impact and carbon footprint. As mentioned above, clause 8 of Tata Code of Conduct also discusses this. Environment is one of the two pillars that constitute TTSLs CS strategy. All initiatives are undertaken with the objective of reducing harmful impact on the environment while encouraging environment friendly practices. Actions Taken 1. Use of Recycled Paper and reduction of Paper Consumption: a. TTSLs IT department has developed an application called Print Manager to reduce its paper consumption. The application prompts the user to think twice before giving a print command, by popping up a descriptive screen detailing the amount of carbon, water and percentage of tree being used for a particular print. The organization has managed to reduce paper consumption across all Circles with this application. b. Replacing balance paper with recycled paper has further reduced TTSLs adverse impact on the environment. Recycled paper is used for printing purposes across the organization: from day-to-day office prints to visiting cards and billing envelopes. 2. Responsible Disposal of E-Waste: The organization generates indirect and direct e-wastes as a result of TTSLs operations. They have been categorized in the following categories:

 

Direct: BTS, Switches & Computers,

Indirect: Mobile Phones, Batteries, affluent due to back-up power for Telecom Towers owned by WTTIL ­ a subsidiary. For this TTSL has tied up with Attero recycling, which is a government approved recycler for E-Waste. Drop boxes are kept at all TTSL offices and select retail outlets where employees and customers can drop their e waste-mobiles, chargers, batteries etc in the drop box. Non working computers are collected from various circle locations and are sent to Attero for recycling.





,,Prakriti-TTSLs Eco Club: This employee volunteer club has been formed with the aim of creating an aware and environmentally conscious workforce who in turn influence those around them to care for the planet. The club undertakes various initiatives like tree plantation, jute bag (or other environmentally friendly bags, instead of polythene) use, and awareness sessions in communities etc.

Green Towers: Replacing Diesel gensets at towers with greener alternatives is a major project at TTSL dedicated to the environment. Initiatives like alternative fuel use for generators, rationalizing temperature and using innovative ways to minimize heating are some of the initiatives undertaken in this area. TTSL is constructing a plan of action based on the Carbon Footprint study results carried out by TQMS. Outcomes: 1. By adopting the Print Manager Application the organization has managed to reduce average daily printing across all circles by 50%, which amounts to around 45,716 sheets of paper saved per day. 2. Using recycled paper has managed to save paper and has reduced the cost of procuring paper by 10%. TTSL has shared this initiative as a best practice across Tata Group, where it has subsequently been replicated by various Tata Group organizations. 3. Responsible Disposal of E-Waste: The organization has managed to collect and dispose 9,170 tonnes of e waste since Sept 2009- (through March 2010) 4.Prakriti-TTSLs Eco Club: There are about 429 employees who are Prakriti Eco Club members

Principle 9: and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment & Policies The Tata Code of Conduct encourages working towards the development of environment friendly technologies for business operations.

Action Taken The organization is working on using alternate fuels for generators used as backup power in tower sites. The temperature of ACs in tower sites have been increased one degree, reducing power consumption.

Outcome Reduction in diesel consumption

Principle 10: : Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery Commitment & Policies The Tata Code of conduct adopted by TTSL has three clauses exclusively dedicated to Ethical Behaviour, Reporting Concerns & Accepting Gifts/Donations. Clause 5 covers ,,Gifts & Donations; Clause 17 covers ,,Ethical Conduct & Clause 25 covers ,,Reporting Concerns (including the role of a whistle blower).  TCOC is also a part of all our agreements with vendors, suppliers, and partners. Additionally, it governs all of our business transactions.  The organization has a Whistle Blower Policy and a Business Ethics policy. Guidelines on Gifts/donations have been put up on the organizations Intranet portal so employees also have access.

Action Taken



It is mandatory for all employees, channel partners, distributors, suppliers to abide by the Tata Code of Conduct. A copy of the Tata Code of Conduct is a part of the joining docket of every new employee to the organization. There is a Chief Ethics Offices which takes care of Ethics in the organization. There is also an Ethical Counselor in every circle that addresses ethical issues and violations. There is an internal portal called ,,Ethical Dilemma where employees can share their dilemmas and seek solutions. Regular mails are also sent out to all employees creating awareness about Ethical issues. A quiz on ethics is held on a regular basis. Awareness sessions on TCOC are conducted for channel partners and suppliers on a regular basis.

 



Outcomes All Ethical Violations reported are taken very seriously by the organization and appropriate action as per the procedures is taken.

