United Nations Global Compact Message from our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Unilever supports the principles of the UN Global Compact, and welcomes its recognition of the positive contribution that business can make to a more prosperous and sustainable world. Development and poverty reduction depend on economic prosperity. International trade and investment creates new employment, raises skill levels and generates local economic activity. In short, the very business of 'doing business' extends prosperity and creates new opportunities. At the same time, companies have a duty to manage all aspects of business in a responsible and sustainable way. At Unilever, we have clear principles of corporate behaviour, which we uphold wherever we operate. We are also committed to minimising the environmental impact of everything we do. We have established programmes of sustainability in agriculture, water, fisheries and now climate change. Dedicated to meeting the everyday needs of people everywhere, Unilever's values are rooted in being a 'multi-local multinational'. We put down deep roots in the countries in which we do business, respecting and drawing strength from diversity and our close proximity to consumers and the societies around us. The UN Global Compact is a symbol of leadership in a complex world and of the potential for mutual understanding. It provides a forward-looking forum in which the United Nations, companies and civil society organisations can come together in open and transparent dialogue. It offers the opportunity to discuss practical ways of working together to create a more prosperous and sustainable world. We are playing our part to contribute to these goals by: · Living out the Compact's principles in our everyday business operations as detailed in our Global Compact Index Demonstrating our continued support for the Compact through our annual Communication on Progress Advocating the Global Compact and its principles, in our senior executives' speeches, on our websites and through local networks

·

·

Michael Treschow - Chairman Paul Polman - Chief Executive Officer

